## Date  
  2021-11-30

## Present
  Tim, Virginia, Jeff, Timea

## Notes
Regular meetings - Tuesday at 6pm CET
Jeff to create meetings folder and put minutes there
discovery should show group membership

Jeff : The key question for me is how do apps discover information based on a WebId.  There is an [outdated spec][https://github.com/solid/solid-spec/blob/master/solid-webid-profiles.md] for it, but currently no documentation about what an app can expect to discover.

The interop panel has a number of plans for a complex set of interactions and structures to make discovery work in a completely different way. It is unclear a) when that will actually be available for apps and b) whether it should completely replace the current method or live alongside of it.  [Note:Justin and Elf have predicted readiness during first quarter 2022, but it's unclear whether it will be fully usable by apps by then.]

The basic concern of the interop panel, as I understand it is that direct use of the profile is dangerous for two reasons - a) if an app can write to your profile, it can write an oidc:issuer triple that repoints control of the Pod to a different WebId.  b) all information about apps is available to any app given permission on the profile, prefernces, and typeIndexes. This means that what one app does is knowable by other apps.

The interop panel wants to introduce the idea of an "authorization agent" - software that a user designates as able to provide discovery and woud be the only one able to edit a profile.
