# W3C Solid Community Group: WebID Profile

* Date: 2022-09-27
* Call: https://meet.jit.si/solid-profile
* Chat: https://gitter.im/solid/webid-profile
* Repository: https://github.com/solid/webid-profile

## Present

* [Virginia Balseiro](https://virginiabalseiro.com/#me)
* [Sarven Capadisli](https://csarven.ca/#i)
* Jeff Zucker
* Tim Berners-Lee

---

## Announcements

### Meeting Recordings and Transcripts

* No audio or video recording, or automated transcripts without consent. Meetings are transcribed and made public. If consent is withheld by anyone, recording/retention must not occur.
* Join queue to talk.

### Participation and Code of Conduct

* [Solid Code of Conduct](https://github.com/solid/process/blob/main/code-of-conduct.md), [Positive Work Environment at W3C: Code of Ethics and Professional Conduct](https://www.w3.org/Consortium/cepc/)
* Operating principle for effective participation is to allow access across disabilities, across country borders, and across time. Feedback on tooling and meeting timing is welcome.
* If this is your first time, welcome! please introduce yourself.

### Scribes

* Sarven

### Introductions

* name: text

---

## Topics

### preferences file (continued)

* VB: Perhaps we can start by writing the use cases as to what could be found in the preferences file.
* VB: For example, it could be helpful to find access rules.
* JZ: Seems clear to me. Things only accessible to the user should be found there. If not an app is operated by the user. The preferences file is wha tthe app looks for. If the informatoin is intended for another user, it shouldn't be there.
* VB: Do you mean public information?
* JZ: The only app that will ever see the preferences file will be the app operated by the user. If I want anything public, it shouldn't go in there. If I am an app that is operating as me, I would go there.
* TBL: The idea is that there is a list of things that's public in the profile, and private in the preferences. In between, you could decide some of the things you want to share that initially started as private but also communities - e.g., that goes into SolidOS - and also you got this for ... there is a space where you put things related to the community or the project or the family.
* SC: Can you clarify if preferences file could hold some of that private information before it becomes public (intermediate)?
* JZ: Some of the stuff will branch off the profile. If it is 'me', the public....
* TBL: It is more complicated than that. Having in the code looking for communities. Suppose this WG is a community, has its own pod, has its own public and private things. The access stuff gives me access to private stuff. There has to be a link that says I participate in the community. Other groups may want to keep it private. The fact that my community membership ??? originally I put it in private but I think it should ??? 
* VB: There is a problem with Solid Profile - WebID or not as separate resource might not be public.
* TBL: If it is not public, then it is not. Do you mean someone can restrict their profile.
* VB: That it is a separate resource and some may not make a resource public by default. Unless it is delivered as public, it will be private.
* TBL: Solid as a social network can capitalise on that.. that means we need to put another stage. Implementations can say "btw, you don't have a public profile".
* VB: I imagine other servers might have the same position, i.e., not public by default.
* JZ: "If the profile isn't public, and you are not the user, there is nothing to do here." could be said by the Spec.
* TBL: I noticed that we don't have a very good path.. if you go to sometihng you don't have access at the moment it says 403. It should say, do you want to request access.
* SC: We have a PR just for that: https://github.com/solid/specification/pull/253
* SC: That includes the use case that Tim mentioned, when the client encounters a 401 or 403, the server will provide an inbox where the client can request access to the resource. The PR covers various client errors. 
* TBL: Does it include onboarding?
* SC: Server wouldn't know you need an account. Server will say you're not authenticated or authorized. 
* TBL: If 401, not logged on. 403 then may hav elogged on but.. you know.. the logical thing is for the operating system .. sthe client software should distinguish between all those cases. We have a case where someone was getting a 403.. and they were using the solidos app and they hadn't given permission. Then it needs to ask to get a solid account first. we should set up a notification system where we ask permission for this resource. that would get translated into a request that goes into someone's inbox.
* SC: That's pretty much what I implemented in dokieli. At the bottom of that PR there is a screencast... In this case the user is signed in, but they're not authorized to create/write a resource, so server returns a 403, so client is doing a PUT request, server returns 403, dokieli detects that and sees that there's an inbox and offers a "request access" button for the user, and when they click it sends a notification to the inbox requesting access and that goes to the inbox provided by the server. What's PR'ed is only the protocol, not the payload, which must be standardized separately. dokieli used AS2 and ACL to request access.
* JZ: This discussion is related to other parts of the profile but not VB's preferences.
* VB: There might also not be an inbox. 
* TBL: If you don't want things public, then you can't boostrap that. Then they learn Solid profile is not useful.
* JZ: I would think most people get a profile and set it for public.
* VB: that may be best practices document for apps that manage profile. so it can say that your profile is not public and it can't really be used - it can recommend to move information around too.
* TBL: If you have a publish button which risks the psychology of "i haven't published anything yet". it is valuable to capture things like the languages you speak. a few things you put in your profile makes everything go much more smoothly.
* JZ: Other than telling the user this is private ... some sort of notice to the user.
* JZ: How about the preferences file. Did your question get answered?
* VB: We should document the use cases.
* SC: +1
* JZ: This: https://github.com/solid/webid-profile/issues/40#issuecomment-1236202594 is my description of the logic of preferences file. The structure of the profile and preferences file. When to put it in the profile and when to in the preferences file. If this is the general framework, people writing/reading have a clear way.
* SC: Is what you wrote on the comment a question or an application flow?
* JZ: Application flow.
* TBL: This issue 40 is not a PR..
* JZ: Issue has lots of stuff. The comment is only about "should the information be accessible to anyone other than the profile owner?"
* TBL: Issues work when you can close them. There are also "Discussions". If proposed, where do I.. that's at the top, isn't it?
* JZ: You're right that this is a discussion and not an issue. There are whole bunch of other points we are discussing in another way, but we can drop this if it doesn't make sense. Just wanted to point this to VB.
* VB: Helpful, thanks.
* VB: Create issue for the use cases.

ACTION: VB to create issue for preferences use cases.


### JZ notes for a new model

#### VB's response

> ### An interoperably usable Solid Profile Document will

> * be modifiable by the Agent the WebID denotes (denotes as defined in the WebID spec, modifiable to be defined, but without specifying any particular method)

* VB: yes
* JZ: that was my compromise but am actually prefer that Solid Profile should be modifiable by the Solid Protocol.
* TBL: I thought we agreed that it is important that you can change the Solid Profile document using the Solid Protocol.
* SC: ..
* TBL: That's true but .. there is an idea that there is WebID information that you may not control. That's a separate issue.
* JZ: ..
* SC: Do we expect an identity provider will need to conform to solid OIDC and Solid Protocol?
* JZ: The only thing it needs to do from the Solid Profile .. if the WebID document has solid:profileDocument, then that document is editable by the Solid Protocol, and that is separate from the WebID document.
* TBL: okay?
* SC: Okay.

> ### An interoperably usable Solid Profile Document will probably also

>* contain one ldp:inbox link (or it could be in an extended document)
>* contain one or more space:storage links (or they could be in extended documents)

* VB: Not sure if these should be requirements, or we should document use cases and how clients should proceed if these are not found.
* JZ: I'd like you to get back to x-folks, why they put the storage in public but that should be private?
* TBL: Is the link from the WebID to the Solid Profile public?
* VB: Right but the resource is not. But the pod is not public.
* VB: If ou ahve space:storage that can be discovered by the storage itself is not accessible.
* SC: Visibility of the storage URI does not imply access to the storage.
* TBL: Right.
* TBL: JZ, why ...
* JZ: If I didn't want anyone to see my storage, I have that right. I suppose people know that it exist, but ...
* TBL: Also there is also metadata that go into the storage, like notifications protocol using the storage description, making that public will make things more smoother.
* VB: We might want to document different situations for that.

ACTION: VB to create use cases for profile including inbox and storage statements?

* JZ: In the UC, if there are privacy reasons go ahead and do it somewhere else. But if not, it'll be efficient to put it in the profile document. That was the reason behind SHOULD but maybe that's not right. We want to encourage people to use it. You want people to find it. Any information you want immediately avaiable belongs in the profile or preferences.
* SC: If you express that in the use cases (when you want a storage to be discovered, this is where it should be... and so on).
* TBL: Reasonable to talk about one inbox. In the future we can look into different inboxes for different groups and different functionality but lets not go there now.
* SC: We have always had storage in the profile. One of the first things app looks for to write data to. 

> ### When reading an interoperably usable Solid Profile, apps should load

> 1. the document the WebID URI dereferences to
> 2. the objects of all rdfs:seeAlso triples in that document if there are any and the objects are accessible

> The Solid Profile will now consist of all triples loaded in this process with the WebID as subject.

* VB: Does #2 need to be a requirement? Clients may follow them if they need to discover extended profiles, but not required (as they might not need to, depending on how they approach it and what data they need).
* JZ: That was my compromise statement. This is where the other logic I would put in here. When youhave the solid profile document, you look for the preferences file, if not look for see alsos.
* SC: PAYGO.


> ### When writing an interoperably usable Extended Profile Document, apps

> * can not depend on other apps following rdfs:seeAlso links inside Extended Profile Documents
> * can not depend on apps reading triples in Extended Profile Documents that do not have WebID as subject

* VB: Agree that this is the case, but does this need to be explicitly said? Maybe this could be part of a "best practices" document.
* JZ: Most things could go into BP. It is an important point because otherwise apps can go in circles or have the limits of what to load. And to make it clear for writing them, if they don't write it this way, apps are free to ignore.
* SC: ...HTTP protocol tells you there's a redirect and clients are not forced to. They can stop, not follow location header. Same principle applies here. Not sure we can enforce to follow all/one links. 
* SC: Mentioned in https://gitter.im/solid/webid-profile?at=631f3bbbf4d7a323decc2de6

>Requirements or advisements related to clients (or applications) following links should remain compatible or extend https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc7231#section-6.4 . Describe the scenario for expected behaviour.

* VB: It might be more helpful to say what seeAlso is and what can be found under that.
* JZ: I think they are free to do that but we shouldn't encourage them.
* SC: Strongly advice to stay close to existing known principles/behaviours.
* TBL: Like following links.
* SC: Yes.
* TBL: Follow ehre they feel like, but e.g. for the photo app, you need to look into that in well-defined protocols. That's also defined in the spirit of HTTP.
* SC: Do you get functionality out of this WebID profile without following those links? I would only visit seeAlso if I don't find info I need in main profile or if I need more comprehensive information. App decides in the end I think.


> ### Included at start of project, no longer included in this spec
>
> * solid:oidcIssuer - mention generally about isssuers, refer users to WebID and Solid-OIDC specs
> * acl:trustedApp - omit, only in one implementation, exposes data
> * typeIndexes - move to their own spec

* VB: Yes.
* SC: Okay to oidcIssuer and typeIndexes but want to ask TBL about trustedApp.
* TBL: Talking about the Profile spec?
* VB: Right.
* TBL: You got to put something in it.
* SC: Reviews...
* TBL: you can put it in another spec but trustedApp is how Solid works. We need to make people to manage their trusted apps.
* VB: Isn't that a good use case for the preferences file?
* TBL: You think so but the way it works is that the server has to be able ot read it. The server of another pod has to be able to read. It effects any data that I own.
* SC: The expectation is trustedApp is in main WebID profile document? 
* TBL: yes. Unfortunately the serer has to go and look whether to block access to an app of an origin, and checks whether they declare those apps to be trustworthy.
* SC: People are interpreting the origin/trustedApp as the app identifier as opposed to just the origin.
* TBL: ...Right. They should FREAK OUT. The browsers ... Web developers used to building apps, understand Origin and cross-site..
* VB: So, they  have to be in the document tha tthe webid dereferences. So trustedApp mechanism won't work if Solid Profile is in a separate resource.
* TBL: At the moment it won't. We'll have to change the way the Web app authorization works so that instead of going just looking at the WebID document it includes into Solid Profile document.
* JZ: If I am an app and requesting a trusted app status, where does that written? It should get written in the Solid Profile document.
* TBL: That's right.
* TBL: Try to put it into this document - WebID Profile - because it is crucial for Solid at the moment.

ACTION: VB to clarify/update existing issue/text on trustedApp.
