# W3C Solid Community Group: WebID Profile

* Date: 2022-03-22T16:00:00Z
* Call: https://meet.jit.si/solid-profile
* Chat: https://gitter.im/solid/profile-spec
* Repository: https://github.com/solid/webid-profile

## Present
* Timea, Virginia, Jeff, Sarven, Tim

---

## Announcements

### Meeting Recordings and Transcripts

* No audio or video recording, or automated transcripts without consent.
  Meetings are transcribed and made public. If consent is withheld by anyone,
  recording/retention must not occur.
* Join queue to talk.

### Participation and Code of Conduct

* [Solid Code of
  Conduct](https://github.com/solid/process/blob/main/code-of-conduct.md),
  [Positive Work Environment at W3C: Code of Ethics and Professional
  Conduct](https://www.w3.org/Consortium/cepc/)
* Operating principle for effective participation is to allow access across
  disabilities, across country borders, and across time. Feedback on tooling and
  meeting timing is welcome.
* If this is your first time, welcome! please introduce yourself.

### Scribes
* Timea

---

## Topics
### Do we want to allow putting acl:trustedApp triples in seeAlso documents
* JZ: anyone can see your trusted apps now. By allowing to put it in seeAlso we can have an app that only I know I use, by controlling the privacy right to seeAlso. It is not critical if we do not have a reason to insist that the profile doc in itself.. why should it be?
* VB: it is not a requirement?
* JZ: it can be anywhere in the extended profile. I personally.. the only reason it has to be in the profile is because NSS does it. with 2 lines of code NSS can also check seeAlso
* VB: makes sense. Any thought Timea?
* TT: no
* JZ: any reason not to use it?
* VB: if you decide to make it public or private ... I don't see why not.
* JZ: how do we deal with the fact that every server does it differently so all we can do is document it right
* VB: I wanted to find how ESS is doing it, but I take a task on this. Clients are added ot an allow list but i don't know how apps can change that. I do not know how it is like to add apps.. i need to find out.
* JZ: there must be smth, there has to allow the app.
* VB: PodBrowser does not have to do this, it was added by default so I take that action item.
* SC: isn't he server looking at trustedApps? (yes) So what is expected form the server when you put it in a protected location.
* JZ: the server would need to look (in a different loc) but it would not be any different. Either it is trusted..
* SC: are you requiring the server to look at that particular location?
* JZ: yes -> NSS does it that way. we do not have a standard way that servers legitimate apps. we document ways the current ecosystem does it, which is the trusted app mechanism. We should not introduce any new. NSS would need to code seeAlso but we would not be mandate that.
* SC: it is an improvement from a current of putting apps directly in the webID and putting it in seeAlso. I am curious how Tim will respond to this. I am not judging on if a place is better or not I just was curious about your opinion. if you move trusted app in another doc we need to consider what would happen to current deployed profiles and server looking at it
* JZ: summarizing for Tim... I am wondering if we need to have trusted apps in webID or in a seeAlso document..
* TBL: it also means you can have a sense of shared apps... like an app store. That functionality would be quite useful. The server only looks at profile not at extended profile so we keep basic functionality but its not how things have worked... Adding it to extended profile I would be inclined to make it special, but to have a pointer to an app, list page, not to add all kinds of apps. If you load Ruben's publications for example it would take too long. The way it works at the moment it only works in the profile itself and we should keep it that way.
* SC: what do you think about a trusted app document? WebId links to trusted app doc, some property trustedApps property and that document would be typically protected and it would still have same triples..
* TBL: if it is protected how would it be read to the server backend
* SC: ??
* TBL: if the server goes out naively and does a fetch it gets a 403
* SC: if it is on a different server
* SC: why would a server do that: go out?
* TBL: how will it read the person'S profile in the first place? or the trustedApps doc if it onlydoes a http get in the internet? Server doesn't need ot authenticate on reading a webprofile
* SC: is there any assumptions that the trusted apps are on the same server as web id profile?
* TBL: at them moment in is in same file even
* SC: I suppose if we extract that ina. different doc - not to go out on the web.. I am thinking out loud here... if we assume that the trusted apps are on the same server.. than the server doesn't need ot go.. it would cheat would not need to authenticate. For example: WAC has a ACL, every resource can have a ACL . it does not impose it is the same resource so it can be on a different domain and different server.
* TBL: it is internal right... you can make the argument about the profile too except
* SC: the WAC emposes it is on same domain but it does not need to be (it is just implemented like that)
* TBL: I am the owner so you have to go back to my webId to see what apps I trust. no reason.. the owner of the file (typically) has a webId on same Pod, if you have multiple pods you end up owning 2 pods and your webID will be on one. It is the fasted thing for the server to go through the back door.
* SC: we have same questions for pref files...
* TBL: same issue for pref file
* SC: ultimately we just have a property, we o not constrain the value of this things it is just a https uri and that is it. What other things
* JZ: pref file, seeAlso, trusted apps and isPimaryTopicOf. Noone of those specify where server is. When ESS hits webID doc with identity provider and * everything else with pod provider there is nothing in the spec
* SC: that is good I think. If it would be on a protocol level it would open up a requirement for it. Better not to say where it could be. Leave it as a homework for the reader if they want to figure out how to authenticate .. how server should be able to do it on a different domain
* TBL: propose to just document existing ways. Just use profile doc. Haven't looked at NSS code yet.
* SC: ongoing issue is that this doc .. if the task is to discover.. any app that has access to this doc will see all apps this person is using. it is legitimate to talk about how to hide this... I don't know... any app that has read permission on webId can read anything.
* TBL: webID is public the pref is not
* SC: it may be private
* TBL: no.
* SC; why?
* TBL: the assumption is you can look it up even when you get an avatar and a nickname. You can look it up. It's counterproductive a bit ... if oyu wanna be a secrete bot you wanna hide it. But it is not... everything you interact with wants to show your nickname.. otherwise you will not really participate. It is theoretically possible but rather unhelpful
* JZ: I think the web doc needs to be public but items in it do not, goes to pref files and seeAlso and give different permissions. It seems the profile has to have this 3 possibilities and we should not be mandating that everything should be public. should be an option for user.
* TBL: almost everything you can put in web profile you can put on pref
* JF: except for trusted Apps
* TBL: then you do not have any. Trusted Apps is a pain but at the moment we have it public and every server can access it. Or we can have itso the server reads it by the backend, user can protect it, but we need to do smth magic on the server.
* JZ: server has to read pref file, i would think, otherwise there is no complete pic of profile. So we can just say you need o read that before looking for trusted apps..
* TBL: if my trusted app file is private and I do not want anyone to know it, how does your own server/Pod know that what I own, what my trusted apps are? This is a pretty simple thing we need to get together. What alternative is there?
* JZ: certainly how it is now we can document it.
* TBL: we should document that. We can give capabilities to a server but how do you know which to trust in general? You could have to go through a process of establishing trust.
* SC: Can we clarify... the trusted app.. what we mean is the trusted origin...
* TBL: yes
* SC: it is somehow clasing with when there a different apps on same origin and client apps are authenticated separately to have their own webID. What I am trying to understand is why do we need the trusted app. Can we just not have any trusted app there? If an app were to be trusted would the origin of that not be mentioned in ACL doc anyway? Isn-ät the server checking to see... refresh my knowledge.
* TBL: for things you want ... you could vice-versa but you need to modify every ACL file to add. If it is smth like DataBrowser or my Pod or whatever pod manager you have to give it.. it has to appear in all ACL files making sure it has access.
* SC: there is an idea here: in the WAC spec it says: implementations might allow a list of origin, like same origin.. so there is .. server tracks origin..
* TBL: server allows origins?
* SC: you gave a good explanation. we put trusted app in webID so server can look at it and knows the request coming from these apps are trusted over any server trust controls just so we do not go in each ACL doc to add trusted origin -> it is a shortcut. A global trusted list. It is a system that keeps track on webId and ACL doc. Consider if we move the list of trusted app to root containers ACL doc can the server look at the root/sorages ACL and discover it there? It is a bit confusing. Is it to storage which applies to all resources?
* TBL: it is the trusted app of user. If I give you read write access control to some part of my Pod then it will look to you which ACL you trust. The assumption is the data belong to Pod and responsibility is to who has access/control. If i split my pod with different ppl for each one they are responsible for their trust level.
* SC: I do not get it...
* TBL: if I give ou a subpod of my pod and taking access away form me...
* CS: in trusted app you specify modes
* TBL: I talk about smth else - if I give you my pod and you have total control then you are responsible for it. So it will look at your profile to see the rights.
* JZ: as far as I understand it only applies to the person using it. If I am using software x y z and i trust origin x y z then I can use it.. it is not affecting anyone who is using that data it only affects me the user... is that correct? Do trusted app effect.. it does not make sense to be if Sarven used part of your pod... when he goes to use that, whatever app he uses to get there has to be trusted on your pod
* TBL: it has to be trusted by him. Algorithms works if the server has a problem with origin, goes to the owner - so to sarven and not me.
* SC: when there is a CORS request the web browser will include origin header.. that is smth - a malicious can fake it, but the origin will be in the request which means the server needs to look at webID and check - is the origin of the request listed in webID profile - does it have right permissions? This mechanism is like ACL origin in WAC
* TBL: it is about the origin - identity of app
* SC: in ACL we have to explicitly need ot mention the ACL property, unless inheritance..
* TBL: no we do not
* SC: what I meant, if ACL is set up like that, there is only one ACL doc that has a ACL origin - in the root - that would be equivalent how we do trusted app. ACL resources are not always organized like that - so we do not get same
* TBL: owner of file not pod. We could say it was too complicated before. Lets ask the person who owns the pod and the pods can have a list of trusted Apps associated with it. You can have it pointed to form root of pos. Would ont be too unreasonable. But when I give you a subPod you could ont use your fav apps to access my subpod. It would be a nice functionality to have. It doe snot tale the root of pod takes personalized control of file.
* SC: When you have trusted app listed in webID and you have ACl with origin in it - how is the server going to take into account? Because it is ACl - authorization kicks in but server responding to request must also look at trusted app. Why duplicate?
* TBL: too much of a pain to put... would be reasonable but ... I can trust media kraken file with movies.. '??? it's like a browser.. it'S just too much of a pain to have to do that.
* SC: WAC says that a server should ont go out and fetch webID profile to determine towards evaluating authorization. We can say trusted app part it is not part of WAC.
* TBL: does WAC says that?
* CS: is it WAC or... in server considerations it is written... part coming form earlier drafts - it is not a requirement only a dec consideration. Because WebId profile doc could be modified...
* TBL: it is under the control of owner
* SC: for every request... not sure how that is going to work out.
* TBL: NSS does it at the moment. Reason why you can use Apps with NSS.
* SC: I like the idea to have one way to not repeat ... have one doc that can be checked. But going on the web to look at WebID profile... if we assume the auth is not on same server (normal) we ask a request to be parsed - how can we move a fetch out together
* JZ: there is a separate fetch - with an origin on it
* SC: you need ot look it up on webID profile
* TBL: you first look at ACL file - if origin is allowed then you let it do it. And then if it is not you look at owner and you cache it.
* SC: what is you stop trusting... worrying
* TBL: caching is risky, if you untrust an app you need ot wait 5min or so... I do not know what NSS does how long it caches
* TT: I wanna propose to just document how it is now and leave the further recommendation to people who have more knowledge on these matters (for example I met someone who writes papers and a thesis on authorization on Solid)
* TBL: the whole origin is a pain.
* JZ: I like this suggestion. And if there is something else we can say about it we will.
### ESS and isPrimaryTopicOf
* VB: we asked why they chose it and if they are open to change it.
* VB: they can change it so we have to discuss the whole topic.
* JZ: we can leave it for next time.
