## date                                                                      
  2022-01-18                                                                
                                                                             
## present                                                                   
  Jeff, Virginia, Timea, Tim, Sarven                                                      
                                                                             
## notes
 * main topic of the meeting: What is the goal we want when engaging with others in regards to our WebId work?
    * Conclusion: our goal is to document the practices that exists, in code, right now. 

*  "document the practices that exists, in code, right now" means implementation that can be demostrated, code that exists and is published in open applications

* the WebId-spec team explains that it decided to tackle the task in 2 ways:
  * from the point of the structure of the profile. This brings up questions like: how can a person have multiple WebIds? How are the connected? How can a person have multiple storages? How does one keep some information private?  
      * *[Note form Jeff : As I see it, these questions relate to what a user does with the profile which we will need to address eventually but I recommend that we stick at first with the app's process of discoverying the WebID owner's infrastructure. The topic of having multiple WebIDs is related to user flow, not to the flow of an app - an app is only concerned with one WebID at a time and often has no way to know if the Agent that owns that WebID also owns other WebIDs.]*
  * from the content of the profile: which information goes in a profile?

* for now, the team focuses on the structural questions because they seem more important to understand. 

* some advice was given:
  * try to explain what a WebId is, understand how we got here. Maybe talk to Henry Story about it. 
      * *[Note from Jeff - I do not believe it is the goal of our spec to describe a WebID in full, there is an entire spec for that, Our goal should be to show how the WebID is used in the Social Agent WebID document to point to relevant profile information.  The fact that the WebID is also used to authenticate, etc. is not really directly our topic.  On the other hand, we ourselves should understand the WebID and I am in favor of inviting Hernry when we have somerthing for him to respond to.]*
  * focus on what is meant to publish a WebId, istead on focusing on servers
  * what is the barrier to participate in the ecosystem?
  * what are publishing practices?
  * where can an app find information?
  * maybe formulate it more generalistic than saying look in the preference file compared to follow the predicate x.
  * it is good to check that what we come up with can co-exist with other solutions out there.
  
*[Note from Jeff: Tim mentioned the idea of emphasizing the Indbox in SolidOS - to have an "email me" button similar to chat button and a "you've got mail" button for the pod owner. 
  * 
