# W3C Solid Community Group: WebID Profile

* Date: 2022-10-04
* Call: https://meet.jit.si/solid-profile
* Chat: https://gitter.im/solid/webid-profile
* Repository: https://github.com/solid/webid-profile

## Present

* [Virginia Balseiro](https://virginiabalseiro.com/#me)
* [Jeff Zucker](https://jeff-zucker.solidcommunity.net/profile/card#me)
* [Sarven Capadisli](https://csarven.ca/#i)
* [Tim Berners-Lee](https://timbl.inrupt.net/profile/card#me)

---

## Announcements

### Meeting Recordings and Transcripts

* No audio or video recording, or automated transcripts without consent. Meetings are transcribed and made public. If consent is withheld by anyone, recording/retention must not occur.
* Join queue to talk.

### Participation and Code of Conduct

* [Solid Code of Conduct](https://github.com/solid/process/blob/main/code-of-conduct.md), [Positive Work Environment at W3C: Code of Ethics and Professional Conduct](https://www.w3.org/Consortium/cepc/)
* Operating principle for effective participation is to allow access across disabilities, across country borders, and across time. Feedback on tooling and meeting timing is welcome.
* If this is your first time, welcome! please introduce yourself.

### Scribes

* Sarven

### Introductions

* name: text

---

## Topics

### Add W3C Solid CG weekly meeting to Participation
URL: https://github.com/solid/specification/pull/458

* SC: Mentioning this for awareness. Trying to re-unite the CG and the Work Items.
* SC: Perhaps WebID Profile can be seen/act as a Task Force? It sort of has thus far. Nothing to act on this right now. 


### Discovery of Solid WebID Profile

* TBL: Raised https://github.com/solid/specification/issues/461 because the introduction of separating the WebID from a Solid WebID Profile would be a breaking change.
* JZ: Only for some servers.
* TBL: When we say the server can do either, clients have to do both.
* SC: Lets come back to this.


### JZ notes for a new model

#### VB's response (continued)

> * preferencesFile - omit, keep this spec orthogonal to permissions

* VB: Should we include and describe its use without getting into permissions?
* VB: Had an ACTION for the preferencesFile and the Solid Profile with storage/inbox.
* VB: Created issues and will write that up and let you know for reading and feedback.
* JZ: I'll post UCs, and you can consider using them.
* VB: +1
* TBL: Didn't quite understand "preferencesFile - omit". 
* VB: The context/perspective was on private vs. public profiles. I do think we should include preferencesFile and explain what it is used for. We do need to document the UCs so to express its use. But don't need to get into access control.
* JZ: Not for a particular access control mechanism but yes the general topic. Not the specifics of permissionning.



> * owl:sameAs - omit, too costly, apps free to use but without expectation all apps will follow

* VB: We can include it and describe its use without making it a requirement.
* VB: It is along the same lines as the next primaryTopicOf.
* VB: Can we just mention what it means and what you can find there when you follow the link.
* JZ: Why are we giving preference to that predicate as opposed to million other predicates people can use for a profile.
* VB: I'm guessing we are going to mention some of them. This might be interesting because it can link to social accounts and stuff that can be helpful.
* SC: There is a specific case for sameAs, e.g., "Connectivity of multiple profiles and cross-context recognition." (issue 52).


> * foafPrimaryTopicOf - omit,  use rdfs:seeAlso instead

* VB: `* typo: foaf:isPrimaryTopicOf`
* VB: We can include this and describe its use without making it a requirement.
* VB: Came to the conclusion after a couple of meetings: ...
* JZ: I meant something else. Use `solid:profileDocument` instead.
* JZ: We can mention that for backwards compatibility, ... It depends on implementers whether they are going ot update.

ACTION: VB to check out some implementation plans.

* JZ: `foaf:PersonalProfileDocument` is a thing. Do we want to encourage that or specifically say it is a `solid:SolidProfileDocument`. Do we want to class to which that belongs.
* JZ: I'm neutral.
* TBL: Is there any software using SolidProfileDocument I wonder.
* TBL: Maybe leave it as a may. To what extend they help when looking at the Turtle for developers. I don't expect code to require it.
* SC: Questions: how are current implementations using `foaf:PersonalProfileDocument`? isn't it implied that by following `solid:profileDocument` they are looking at a profile document? if current implementations are not looking at `foaf:PersonalProfileDocument`, they might not use `s`olid:SolidProfileDocument`.
* TBL: I propose we don't use it because we don't have a need to use other than foaf:PersonalProfileDocument. If we label with foaf ontology, that seems reasonable.
* SC: We can add that in later if need to.
* TBL: Lets recommend that `foaf:PersonalProfileDocument` but not required.
* JZ: An organisational profile is not a PersonalProfileDocument.
* TBL: PersonalprofileDocument is still useful as part of a self-describing Web. You shouldn't write code that assumes that someone is a particular use.
* SC: Could be along the lines of may/should or non-normative like "strongly encouraged"
* TBL: For agent specific, like a 
* SC: Interesting that it wasn't ProfileDocument. Could ping danbri.
* TBL: Initially about people. A few of them. I can't blame them really for the choice.


> * solid:account - omit, provides nothing space:storage doesn't

* VB: Yes.
* VB: We agreed that we don't need that.
* JZ: It seems really important to be able to discover the owner of a storage. If you get somewhere, who do you leave a message with. Unless the server leaves a metatag for the owner but it is not required.
* SC: TBL, can we iron out the MUSTs for Storage and owner? Because it is coming up in the CG. Some are saying that it should be required and some worry that it may be a security issue. That decision will help answer concerns about how to find the owner of a storage. To resolve that the server must link to resource owner.
* JZ: is that our task
* SC: The Solid Protocol.
* VB: Still doesn't make the 
* JZ: If it gets clarified, we definitely want to say that in order to find out... that is another way to discover a profile. One way is from the WebID and find the profile document. If there is a way to find the owner from storage, and who the webid is and get to it. This is another way to discover a profile. if that exists, we need to mention it.
* SC: not aware of anything using solid:account now. if not used, better to omit until more implementations use it. 
* TBL: `solid:account` was to be used like `foaf:account` (for social accounts and so)
* SC: `solid:account` was a user account, not WebID. Associated to Pod account/storage. Related stuff like `solid:storageQuota`/`Usage`. Not like `foaf:account`.
* TBL: I thought `foaf:account` was used for external accounts. But `solid:account` is not to be used in that way, but to do with the account associated with storage. 
* SC: there is account property and class. Storage quota and usage have domain account. solid:account points to solid:Account which has quota and usage. Some of these properties were added without going through a process. Used a bit, but no picked up after. Have they been used?
* JZ: WebID `solid:owner` Storage.
* TBL: Account is 1-1 with storage.
* SC: I don't think we should conflate Storage and Account.
* JZ:
  ># Root Meta resource for the user account
  ># Used to discover the account's WebID URI, given the account URI (in NSS)
  >`<https://jeff-zucker.solidcommunity.net/profile/card#me>`
  >`  <http://www.w3.org/ns/solid/terms#account> </>. `
* TBL: Should we then restrict the terms so they can only be used -- for the owner of the storage or something else?
* SC: Is target of solid:account supposed to be Storage?
* JZ: That's what this says.
* SC: `solid:account` seems to overlap with `pim:storage`.
* JZ: They have different purposes.
* SC: I'd expect the account is in the same origin in this case? 
* JZ: Not necessarily.
* SC: I'm not seeing the added value at the moment.
* JZ: How do I find out who owns.
* TBL: That is interesting but we have the concept of solid:owner. That is access controlled that allows you to use the owner. One way to storageDescription.
* SC: That UC is mentioned in solid/specification 355. Is solid:account equivalent to "owns"? Essentially inverse of owner.
* JZ: yes. not arguing for using `solid:account`, but something that tells us this.
* SC: Oh, so yea we totally have `acl:owner` which is exactly that. Designates the owner of the resource, person who created and controls resource. We moved to resource level, but we need a concept of owner that can hep mitigate loss of control. If you lose control access to a section of your pod, solid:owner can fix that. 
* TBL: that is how NSS works now so we need to fix quickly.
* SC: Can we postpone solid:account in WebID profile?
* JZ: How about `acl:owner`?
* TBL: Being the owner of the Pod, we don't want anyone to write anything. If you want to find out who owns, then you need the HTTP header to find the owner. I thought we had that.
* SC: We do. But not clearly written as a MUST. It says when you expose do this, but doesn't say you must expose. 
* TBL: Which implementations are exposing Storage?
