# W3C Solid Community Group: WebID Profile

* Date: 2022-10-25T16:00:00Z
* Call: <https://meet.jit.si/solid-profile>
* Chat: <https://gitter.im/solid/webid-profile>
* Repository: <https://github.com/solid/webid-profile>

## Present

* [Virginia Balseiro](https://virginiabalseiro.com/#me)
* Jeff Zucker
* Samu Lang
* Matthieu Bosquet
* Aaron Coburn
* Timea Turdean
* [Sarven Capadisli](https://csarven.ca/#i)

---

## Announcements

### Meeting Recordings and Transcripts

* No audio or video recording, or automated transcripts without consent. Meetings are transcribed and made public. If consent is withheld by anyone, recording/retention must not occur.
* Join queue to talk.

### Participation and Code of Conduct

* [Solid Code of Conduct](https://github.com/solid/process/blob/main/code-of-conduct.md), [Positive Work Environment at W3C: Code of Ethics and Professional Conduct](https://www.w3.org/Consortium/cepc/)
* Operating principle for effective participation is to allow access across disabilities, across country borders, and across time. Feedback on tooling and meeting timing is welcome.
* If this is your first time, welcome! please introduce yourself.

### Scribes

* Sarven
* Virginia

### Introductions

* name: text

---

## Topics

### Updates on prior ACTIONs and ongoing work

* VB: still working on use cases (#54 and #55) and trusted apps. Also working on #53 (considerations section). Expect PRs soon.
* VB: edited text on Solid OIDC issuer and Inbox sections in webid-profile/
* VB: <https://github.com/solid/webid-profile/issues/57> still pending, I can take that action item as well.
* VB: working on clarifying our goals and updating the README.
* JZ: working on introductory section, descriptions of identity, dealing with authorization of apps and users ... need to wait for resolution of the "WebID doc can be different from Profile doc" issue before finalizing.
* JZ: This may be for action. TO discuss handling of handling ACL trustedApp in the same way for type indexes.
* VB: Discussed wiht Tim and suggested that too many small documents. For now pull into webid-profile and then figure out a better place.
* JZ: Ouch.
* TT: Follow up on tasking putting linking to type-indexes but where do they have to go?
* VB: Did we have it linked at one point?
* JZ: I've been working on the Introduction section re what a profile is what it can have. I can see that as a place to branch out where else to go. That'd be my suggestion as to where to put it. Already started with something. Perhaps we can come up with different ways to point at type-indexes. TT will need to help decide which combination of those things to use.
* TT: Makes sense in the Solid WebID Profile spec. I can also put it in the README of solid/webid-profile. DONE.

### PodSpaces WebIDs discussions from Gitter chat

* JZ: We'd love to hear from ESS, but important to have Tim in this conversation.
* JZ: Becomes complex to write a document where some servers have WebID on one server and Profile description about the agent on another server. To have situation where some are combined or different. It becomes difficult to describe. However, if necessary we'll figure out a way.
* JZ: AC has convinced me that it is necessary but Tim wants to push back on it and needs to be convinced. ??? if the server control the writing of the predicates that would solve the security needs but it would allow a single document. But need to convince other people here and Tim that absolutely necessary that we support WebID document not writable by the Solid Protocol.
* AC: WebID profile doc is root of all trust in Solid - so need to be careful. I am not saying that there must be two or one document. That can be an implementation detail. If we have a mechanism to use RDF types - webid profile, solid profile, to distinguish the docs we have a clear way forward. If we can link to root of that trust (WebID Profile) to the Solid Profile ???, then we can have servers with the two approaches.
* JZ: There is a way to do it, but adds a hop and questions about what is the identity. Tim wants to push back on whether it HAS to be done in this way.
* SL: To add to why: there are two very convincing reasons: 1 - if we want a single WebID to own multiple storages, we must separate WebID from storage. 2 - with the kind of customers Inrupt works with, some of them won;'t be happy with WebID profile stored in a Pod, because they have different ideas about identity.
* AC: To add to point 2 re: customers. Can any resource in a pod be publicly accessible with no authentication headers? For WebID validation to work they need to be public. If we are forced to put a WebID profile in a storage that cannot make resources public, we cannot support protocol.
* JZ: Question about the storage, what is the problem with multiple storages?
* SC: Let's break into sub-topics.

#### Multiple Storages per WebID

* SL: No problem storing WebIDs anywhere. The reason I mention is: provisioning of storage by a customer for a user, and provision of identity by a customer for a user are linked together. It becomes impossible for a WebID to own multiple storages if the profile is required to be stored in the storage.
* JZ: Still unanswered.
* SL: You can have multiple storages, but if a WebID needs to be in a storage, and maybe you have another storage with the same provider, that works. But it shifts the complexity onto implementers. Complexity exists always, question is where. This would go into the responsibility of the operator.
* AC: Also question about data portability. If I can take my data and store in one storage, and then later I find a better provider for different reasons, I might wanna move my data. If my WebID is in the original data, I need to change URL and therefore identity, and need to recreate all the permissions. In particular if you have different pods from different providers. If WebID is stored in a particular storage, identity is tied to that particular provider.
* JZ: Legitimate concern. That doesn't related to whether multiple storages can be handled better in one case or the other. I understand issue of moving stuff around, but Samu mentioned that the other way of doing it would not support multiple storages.
* SL: Agree on separate topic. The other way is more at odds with the kind of customers and their needs.
* MB: If a WebID must be in a Solid storage, I cannot identify myself within Solid ecosystem without having a storage. However, one of the fundamental promises of Solid is separate identity from data storage. If I have a URL ???, then all I need is control of it. Requiring my identity is inside a storage, it raises the complexity of identifies myself and breaks the promise that Solid enables the separation of identity and storage. Like in order to use Google services I need a Gmail address.
* JZ: Why can't I do that by creating a profile that doesn't point to any storage? Only contains OIDC issuer.
* MB: I might not want to publicly advertise storage.
* JZ: Why can't that be done with the 1-profile system?
* MB: I thought Solid profile would be required to be in a storage.
* JZ: Even if it is, doesn't need to point to any storage.
* MB: Not arguing against it being in a storage, just against it being a requirements.
* JZ: How does being in a storage prevents your goal?
* MB: I want to be able to buy a domain name, create a doc that points to cryptographic material, and use that URL as my identity. There is currently no solution for this. I want to have as many storages as I want with my separate identity.
* SL: It is not just Matthieu. I agree. Important thing is Inrupt has customers that want the same thing. Some customers have implemented WebID services for their users. IT would be prohibitive to require them to implement Solid protoicol over this. Customers would not like it because they think differently about controlling access to identity vs. control access to resources.
* SC: There is a reason to make separation, also valid not to, useful info for those making the separation to give guidance to those who decides to make the separation. "If you have multiple storages, be aware of these considerations". What should client do if presented with multiple storages? We have the same question about multiple inboxes. The owner of a profile have the right to put whatever they want, the question is how to handle non-conforming profiles. We need a bound somewhere.
* JZ: What about this issue prevents a single WebID profile document on a Solid server?

* SC: Sounds like useful material for the Considerations section. Consider an action to articulate some scenarios in the spec.
* SC: May be interesting to articulate what behaviour to expect from consumers when they encounter multiple storages (assuming `pim:storage`).

#### Separation of Storage and Identity

* AC: Implementation experience that we describe is from an enterprise context where there is an existing identity system in place. Not like ESS or CSS, but a large entity that already has invested a lot in an existing identity system that we want to integrate into. That integration is the hardest thing about installing Solid in an existing system. Adding additional complexities would make it more complicated and make it a non-starter in lots of cases.  ???
* AC: you need to end up with a WebID token which makes a claim about the issuer. You need a coordination between issuer and WebID issuer. that coordination is hard. It sound easy but you cannot.
* AC: In some cases that means ???, people installing Solid have no find a way to manipulate certain things. We need to bridge, and the only way is through this layer of indirection, where WebID lives separate from storage, this allows us to integrate with existing systems.
* JZ: Thank you that clarifies it.
* SC: If the question is to prohibit having more than one storage?
* SL: Different topic. We are talking about the proposal to require WebID Servers to implement Solid protocol.
* SL: Not arguing that there needs to be two documents. Only against the requirement to have the WebID profile resource editable via Solid protocol. I think in some cases it makes sense to have multiple documents, in other cases there is no need.
* JZ: However if I as a user have control of what describes me, I cannot use Solid to describe myself. The problem is if we do it with separation, you need to be able to edit the description with Solid protocol.
* SL: Agreed. Good case for having two documents. In some cases no. But I want to make sure we support the case where a person does not need/want to edit it.
* JZ: where they don't want to edit their own profile?
* SL: Yes, where the setup is the user cannot edit anything in WebID Profile. There are requirements from organizations to separate.
* AC: Three scenarios ??? We are concerned about the requirement that there is a single document editable by Solid protocol. Not convinced of requiring two profile documents. I'd rather have: here's the root, here's the pathway to discover how to add info about the agent.
* SC: The way I was approaching this problem was ( <https://github.com/solid/webid-profile/issues/58> ), the starting point of the Solid WebID Profile spec is something on a Solid server and it is describing a data model, maybe some discovery, how to modify/create the document. There are use cases where not all WebIDs need to be there, they might not be in a Solid server, I can use that WebID to participate in Solid ecosystem but not need to modify. Might be useful to have an incoming link to the Solid WebID Profile in the spec that addresses that separation. Focus on the model being Solid WebID profile which is on a Solid server.
* VB: +1
* SL: Fine if no impositions on the WebID Profile itself.
* JZ: We are discussing what the link would be. But that is the general solution.
* JZ: For us to say WebID document whether or not on Solid server is solid profile problematic because: if I want to add, say, a seeAlso, apps will have to create those triples. How does an app write that seeAlso into profile? It can't if profile is inaccessible.
* SL: That would depend on who is operating the WebID server. It is their prerogative to decide who and how they can add that triple.
* AC: Even if WebID Server is 100% Solid protocol conforming, there will still be some access control system such that not all apps can edit that document. This is is one of the reasons we separated it. To be able to lock down which apps can write to that document. How can an arbitrary app find out what the authoritative apps are and delegate that operation to that other app? Pass that request onto an app that has proper access. UX flows can be designed so that experience remains same for user.
* VB: +1

#### Separation of needs: Authentication - Discovery - Representation of oneself

* MB: I'd like to talk about orthogonality of needs and specs. The profile group's mandate is very ambitious: things being tackled around authentication, discovery, representation of oneself. In my opinion it is important that those three streams of needs are treated as things that would not be forcefully impeding each other technically. A discovery document, or any number of docs that represent me, we could consider them not mandated to be on a Solid server. Details of Authentication mechanisms is not the Profile group's mandate. Defining a document format to create discovery documents, that is very important. It might be counter-productive to mandate Solid storage (or document editing protocol). Some implementation will want it on a solid storage and some will not. Defining document format for discovery and representations of oneself are very important, no need to mandate in addition the details of editing such resources.
* JZ: Those are already mixed and I sympathise with the goal of unmixing.
* SC: Identity/individuality is a complex topic. We don't have to rehash things others have done. We need a document that defines profiles. We can have sections focused on those aspects and keep them clear, but the expectation of this group and the spec is self-description ??? Not setting a requirement to have certain data. It is how to have minimal things in place to cover the notion of social interactions. Store things somewhere authenticate, send notifications somewhere... we already moved Type indexes, and if there is another section that could stand alone, we can move it, but for now we should not get into separation without enough material to separate. Easier to organise/manage sections in one document than multiple documents at this time.
* JZ: If a Solid WebID profile is not editable by Solid where does that leave us?
* AC: There are a lot of specifications that Solid builds upon (e.g. Solid OIDC) there are lots of ways to build on things. So let's do that.
* JZ: fine for WebID but for resources and all we should be able to specify.
* SL: Sorry, it does not have to say anything about it nor about access control or editing of resources.
* AC: a particular app can have that function. If I do not tell the app maybe it cannot work properly.An app may have specific requirements which are different from those needed at protocol level. At protocol level: what is the domain of requirements and apps specific requirements.
* JZ: having an interop document is beyond domains?
* SL: I do not agree. Some apps will not do profile and I want that represented in all specs we come up with.
* AC: I could come up with all kinds of way to describe an App which doesn't need a profile. An app can write a profile to an app specific location if it needs one. We could get around all this protocol stuff.
* AC: what I am arguing is a separation of concerns and what is needed at diff levels. An app would be more interested in foaf:name than solid:oidcIssuer (although it would be interested in oidcIssuer for the purpose of login). All these different layers, and depend on what layer I am at in an app I have different needs.
* JZ: who determines that? Does not need to be in the Solid protocol?
* AC: not necessarily. We will define this but there are ways to do this without requiring Solid Protocol.
* SL: WebID profile linking
* AC: There are any numbers, VCs, OpenID... there are lots of things that require Solid Protocol and a variety of other mechanism that could be used, so let's let the applications do what they do.

ACTION: VB/TT to set up a (public) meeting outside the regular time as soon as possible with ESS and Tim (or alternatively, we will meet in two weeks).

### Issue Labels

* SC: I've copied some of the labels from solid/specification to solid/webid-profile and solid/type-indexes (it is also used in solid/notifications and maybe a few other places). Each repo can update / add labels as it needs. I'll eventually move this stuff to the solid org so that all repos can start with a core set of labels that's suitable for Work Items. I say "all" but obviously not everything under the solid is a CG related Work Item. So, copying from solid/specification for the time being. Please have a look at the labels and lets label stuff more.
* SC: e.g., <https://github.com/solid/webid-profile/labels> , <https://github.com/solid/type-indexes/labels>

### Cardinality of Profiles

* JZ: Are we agreed that we will only describe one profile per WebID?

* VB: We will only describe and recommend one but we shouldn't forbid multiple. We can say "it in encouraged that there is one solid:profileDocument" or "discouraged" to have more than one, and then we can revisit as needed if and when the use cases evolve.

* TT: We should not forbid things, let the ecosystem evolve

* SC: We don't need to specify that the cardinality MUST be one, we can just say that we recommend one and that if there are more than one the behvior is unspecified and it can not be expected that apps will know how to handle it

* JZ: So we'll describe only the one-profile-per-webid in the spec but not forbid multiple (but also not describe or explain them or claim they work), I can live with that.
