# W3C Solid Community Group: WebID Profile

* Date: 2022-09-06T16:00:00Z
* Call: <https://meet.jit.si/solid-profile>
* Chat: <https://gitter.im/solid/webid-profile>
* Repository: <https://github.com/solid/webid-profile>

## Present

* [Virginia Balseiro](https://virginiabalseiro.com/#me)
* [Sarven Capadisli](https://csarven.ca/#i)
* Jeff Zucker
* Timea Turdean

---

## Announcements

### Meeting Recordings and Transcripts

* No audio or video recording, or automated transcripts without consent. Meetings are transcribed and made public. If consent is withheld by anyone, recording/retention must not occur.
* Join queue to talk.

### Participation and Code of Conduct

* [Solid Code of Conduct](https://github.com/solid/process/blob/main/code-of-conduct.md), [Positive Work Environment at W3C: Code of Ethics and Professional Conduct](https://www.w3.org/Consortium/cepc/)
* Operating principle for effective participation is to allow access across disabilities, across country borders, and across time. Feedback on tooling and meeting timing is welcome.
* If this is your first time, welcome! please introduce yourself.

### Scribes

* Timea

### Introductions

* name: text

---

## Topics

### Open Actions

>* ACTION: Have RV clarify committent to type-indexes.
>
* TT: RV declined but referenced Ruben Taelman. There will be a follow up meeting.

>* ACTION: SC to create `type-indexes` repo.
>
* SC: Done.

>* ACTION: TT to follow-up on PR [46](https://github.com/solid/webid-profile/pull/46), copy the type-indexes document into its own repo. Remove type-indexes from webid-profile repo.
>
* TT: Done.

>* ACTION: JZ to update webid-profile, removing type-indexes. on PR [46](https://github.com/solid/webid-profile/pull/46)
>
* JZ: Done.

>* ACTION: JZ, VB, TT to invite others to comment on issue.
>
* VB: Done

>* ACTION: VB to ask out there for perspectives on public profile.
>
* VB: Done. Will talked about later.

>* ACTION: JZ edit the top of issue 40 to reflect on the changes based on what we agreed here.
>
* JZ: Done but need to be revised again on the new incoming comments.
* SC: we did it up until my comments?
* JZ: yes. Your comment was not included in last meeting discussion. However I did add my replies on the issue itself.
* SC: I had 2 comments on that issue - when would be go over them?
* VB: after the action list. If everyone Ok.
* JZ: I would prefer it to be at the end of the agenda actually.
* SC: the topics may be important beforehand.

>* ACTION: Revise the SHOULDs in the type indexes on when an app wants to make data public/shareable.
>
* TT: where should it be?
* JZ: seems to be on the type index repo
* SC: this group here covers the editorial work on it.
* TT: it is probably my action, was not done, will keep it on the list for now.

>* ACTION: Review with Tim on trustedApp
>
* JZ: we have other higher prios to discuss. We should make a list of topics we need his opinion on.
* TT: how should we do this?
* VB: make one and add to it?
* TT: are there other topic?
* JZ: here goes:
  * single profile doc
  * if profile public
  * ownership of profile - what it involves - apps or idProviders
  * talk about document permission system
  * talk about triple level permission.
* TT: are the last one even up to us C?
* SC: no, the webid-profile spec need not venture there. let other/orthogonal components take care of that. it is hard to say now without understanding what may be overlapping or needs to be modified. see comment x <https://github.com/solid/webid-profile/issues/40#issuecomment-1238351868> and this is more of a concern for authorization e.g., may need to resolve things like <https://github.com/solid/authorization-panel/issues/121> (where attribute-level access control may be one way.)
* SC: focus on identity/profile and discover.

### Requirement that profile document must be public

* VB: the audience of the spec is app developers -
* JZ: I would say it is two - what they expect when reading and what to expect when they write. It is up to them to fix a broken profile.
* VB: we cannot expect that there will be any, and we cannot expect they will be public. For the case of public: i would assume that a lot of servers will not make resources public, ESS is one of them, I got confirmation taht they will not make resources public on a pod. This also ties into, ESS having WebID separate from storage - there could eb no profile at all, and aside from that a user can make a profile private - which case a dev cannot expect to be able to write to it. It is not necessary and I do not think we can ask companies or whoever is providing ppl with pods to make somethign public - chances are they are going to chose 'private' due to security or whatever.
* SC: Can someone remind me what the use case or concern was for needing it to be public?
* JZ: I have never spoken to say that the whole profile sjould be public. it is not part of discussion. i have no pb with either thing Virginia said. Devs should expect that when they come to a profile that it might not point to any other profile document and can not assume that it is publicly readable.
* VB: now it says 'it MUST be publicly readable'
* JZ: I agree we can remove that

ACTION: JZ - to update the first comment and remove MUST be publicly readable.

### Requirement that there must be exactly one profile document

* VB: there can be 0, as I said before. We should not restrict it to 1 either because, if anything, if I have more but an app is looking only at one - the app will not have all my profile.
* SC: the spec gives the conditions if you want to have interop, all these rules, which means you need one for a profile to exist to do smth with it... if there is no profile there is nothing to do. I do not know of any rules or req in the case there is no profile doc.
* VB: essentially we were discussing this, you can have a profile information in the webId document... say you have a ESS with webID with nothing in it but linked to somethign else. What happens if I do not find it in the same document, where shall I look? If there is nothing, that is the end of the path. But if you find this or that, then you can go look. My opinion is to not say and allow for flexibility.
* SC: the moment the webID dereferences - get 200 at some point -> that is a WebID Profile Document (WebID 1.0). If it does not resolve, there is nothing to do with the Solid WebID Profile spec, it is not useful.
* VB: I was talking about when you get 200 and there is no info.
* SC: based on what you are saying, then at what point does it count as a "profile doc"?
* VB: ???
* JZ: can I share screen to explain why I am not in favor of this?
* JZ: Usually you go to a Solid profile doc that is editable by the Solid Protocol so it is ok. If the app cannot edit the webid document and also not the links from the webid document to extended documents, to me that says that profile is not something an app can editable
* VB: what is still the problem?
* JZ: if a weID document not on a resource server is not editable by the Solid Protocol, we cannot say anything about it because our spec is not aimed at servers
* VB: my opinion is that we can say something about it - if you cannot update you update the user about it. If you cannot find an extended profile, tell the user. if the profile is not editable - tell the user. It is the same if you find many - follow them all or ask the user which to follow. This is what we can say.
* SC: I like the diagram. I undertand that this are pretty much the same. The second use case is strange to me. Does it have all the things it needs to constitute as a Solid Profile? The topic is a bit strange. Yes you do have to have it, if you do not teh spec or is rules. There is nothing to read further. It is getting to an implementation detail. the webId spec should focus on what does this profile look like, not so much about how you got there, hop through authentication systems, identity providers, or key based authentication. it is all handeled elsewhere. We do not need to make those assumptions.
* JZ: you are ok if the WebId  document and link are not editable by solid Apps?
* SC: why is there a need to talk abotu if that document is edibale or not as oposoed to how it should look like.
* JZ: I would proposed def about what a webID owner is - i based it on teh definition of a storage.  see my definitino proposals: <https://github.com/solid/webid-profile/issues/40#issuecomment-1236391633>-> esential part of a profile that the user controls.
* SC: those seem ok to me.
* JZ: so who enforces that than?
* SC: I mentioned it in another rmeeting - there migth be a spectrum of things where on one end we expect the webID profile to be a solid resource on a solid server with access controlls from teh solid protocol. ON the oteh end you have a WebID that may be on any server, not necessarily a solid server. So a solid resource and a webID rendered on a web. There migth be something in the middle, and we are hinting at but we should not, the identity provider and solid oidc provider. Every person will have a different reply, the way you are describing a WebID owner is closer to a soldi resource because tehre is an expectation of solid apps to read and write that type of resource but there are clear req how to work with it. Clear defined. On teh otehr hand, there is a webId document, we do not know, it is unclear how one would write to it, read is clear. When we call the webid spec profile - we need to ask are we generalizing it to WebID or ... Solid WebId is also base it to a webID but they do not want to be too atached to it. Initially it gives you a JSON-LD document. And that expectation is JSON or JSON-LD but the WebID spec says TURTLE is a must. Is is intented to be a true WebID or is it a Solid resource? Solid Protocol extends current WebId spec in that a Solid server give a WebID Profile Document out of teh box, but it is not a case with an Solid OIDC IdP. There is a sort of problem that that spec needs to clean up.
* JZ: I agree we need to say as little as possible about WebID, however I do not believe that we can have a def of a Soldi profile that may coincide with the defi of a WebID document and it also may not. If it doe snot it must have a direct link to one that is. That can let us fully specify what an app cna do. I am in favour to say - go read those spec - but if you are a Solid WebID profile - tehre are teh rules oyu should follow.
* VB: What I think we should say - instead there MUST be say 1 document - we shoudl say there could eb a very minimal.
* JZ: not in favor .. it shoudl not pretend to be a Soldi profile - it can point to a Solid profile. But it might not, correct.
* VB: so why are we trying to inforce that there is 1.
* JZ: I agree there could be 0 or 1.
* VB: we shoudl allow for the possibility there are more. in case the user wants. I do not see why not.
* JZ: that puts things outside Solid spec - lets the server do whatever it wants. What is the advantage - what doe steh user gain? IN my version tehre is one step inbetween.
* VB: I don't know why not. If I want to have mutiple profile and not have multiple profiles - why not?
* JZ: there are a lot of specs that want to put stuff ina  Solid profile - so if there is none - where should they out it? There has to be one document
* SC: Virginia, what you are describing is itnot more close to extended profile than primary profile. You build on extisting spec - go to WebID you dereference -> you got one. If it contains or not the info you need. On my website I can put all my stuff in one document, and it is fine but someotehr IDP could say, what it resolves to is a very min description of a profile and it is going to link to an extended profile and that is where you get the full description of the whole thing. I keep going back to these concepts - interpreting the ??? (about extended profile).
* SC: one identity, multiple documents, it is talking about same entity. One is talking about interests, who you know but actually it is about one profile. One view of that is that there is one identity and teh othe ris you have multiple WebID but different identities (Aspects of me). Make that distinction. Are we talking about different identities, controlled, connected. You get to a point of: can you have multiple identities.
* VB: my thought process is what is I want to have different identities - I do not want tehm to be linked from one profile - I want to have associated alternative profiles linked.
* JZ: one can depict these use cases also with my approach.
* SC: if you do not talk about access, it is completely possible right now.
* JZ: the second case is an extension of ??? How can you provide an extension for the one in the middle? How do we write them?
* SC: how is the second different than the first again?
* JZ: the WebID document is not accessible by Solid Apps so we cannot say anything about it in our specs.
* SC: I do not think that is a case we need to acknowledge.
* JZ: is it ok for a server to do that?
* SC: it is a webID document in the second case.
* JZ: I think we should have a definition of a solid profile under the control of Solid Apps. and when we say how to create that,  that is how they should create it. And if there is one tehy do nto need to create one.
* SC: we know it is not the server's responsability to describe a profile. It is of an agent that uses an app which has the delegation to so that. The WebID profile spec is more about this document materializing this statements. How we eneded there we do not know. In order for apps to use it those statements need to be tehre. A server and a client can do it by any means but we are not talking about them doing it. But we do not need to say it - a conforming profile doc looks liek this.. and when you ened to use it this is how it looks like. Here how a conforming authorization ACL looks like (as an example) - it is selve described: has an agent, acess, mode and so on. WHo si going to make use of it is a separate questions. Another is: how does a server evaluate if it has access. It looks into it. Client can use same info to check if it has view or write access. So in the Soldi WebID profile spec shoudl be about the conformace looks like, leave off how it is evaluated, who is going to use it and how.
* JZ: about writing rules to apps - how do we write rules to apps on webid that they have no access to?
* SC: you can defer. What we discuss is similar to a sectino in WAC called HTTP interactions <https://solid.github.io/web-access-control-spec/#http-interactions> The point is the WAC spec does not need to tell you how you do write/write on a ACL resource. It just says: go on use it in HTTP or LD friendly stack - Solid protocol, LDP or smth else. Solid WebID profile can say: use Soldi Protocol to read/write. Use write operations from HTTP. And that is it. You are expecting the app to do that, which I understand. An app which follows the spec can write to a Solid server but not all aplications can.
* TT: I could follow.
* SC: Another example: <https://github.com/solid/specification/issues/194#issuecomment-694828342> talk about compatibility LDP and Solid Protocol. The main purpose was - how can a Solid client communicte to a LDP server and how can a LDP cleint communnicate to a Solid Server. Same: the WebID profile is not on a Solid Server so how can a Soldi App talk to it? Draw a parallel. Example it says: clients that are build to speak with LDP servers can also speak to Solid Servers re relative referencing.
* JZ: it comes down to - if we should define a solid profile if it is accessible by a solid app.
* VB: we can just say: solid WebId is not editable by a user - you can follow the links, 1 or none or more. That is what i am saying.
* JZ: do you believe the soldi profile should be under the control of the user?
* VB: yes
* JZ: so how? the profile yes but not the WebID
* SC: it sounds like an extended profile.
* VB: yes
* SC: these are all 'a profile' distributed accross documents - one config is like the third use case shown by Jeff. The NSS approach is cmpletely fine. It maybe does not need extended. But ESS wants that - I do not see an issue. They are both ok.
* JZ: can I ask to ask for an open specific questions - is a Solid WebID profile editabel by a solid app?
* SC: yes. do not call it Soldi WebID profile if it is not.
* JZ: so how would be do it?
* VB: in that case it is not a Soldi Profile. What we should say is: it can happen and mention that you can alctually go and find different an actual profile or more than one or 0.
* JZ: can I edit it as a solid app - how many document there are, what they are..
* VB: no you cannot.
* JZ: a webID cannot be a solid profile - it can ppint to one.
* VB: correct.
* JZ: how would it possible to have multiple links?
* VB: the solid app cannot but the user can through the provider.
* JZ: did we just agree that all data ina  solid profile is accessible by a solid app?
* SC: I do not think we need to specify that.
* JZ: we cannot say anything about it then.
* SC: lets get more specific. In an application that has the know-how of the Solid protocol can edit the solid webID profile.
* JZ: how can you have the second situation in my drawing if these all is true?

### Reiterate on spec goal

* TT: helps us to focus. ok if we change the scope of the goal but just want to be aware of it. so far we said it is for (solid) web developers. also set out with the goal of describing what exists/implemented. i have a hard time walk between this and what we need to fill in the gaps but not defined concepts. for me that is difficult at the moment.
* TT: also noticed second goal may be merging. the whole process helps us learn about the other specs, code/implementations, a journey for me to leran about the ecosystem. in that process we ran into rabbitholes. sometimes we noticed that we can't define new things. sometimes other things are left open.
* TT: we need to bring them to the forefront for the web developers. go to that spec and find it out. but i want to also have a reason to go ther and check it out. not unspecified -> leave the page. maybe be very frank and say it is undefined or no consensus about it. discussed here there..
* TT: Do we need additional document that would help people that we can't help everyone.
* TT: This is for Solid Web developers?
* SC: The room appears to agree.
* TT: What we are doing is probably the same for every developer.
* JZ: Things like WebID spec and Solid OIDC is part of the discovery process. Our spec should help developers what a profile is, e.g., WebID document, some sort of an Identity Provider, so we point to existing spec.. and then what you have left is the Solid WebID Profile. Give informative description.
* TT: For each technical teopic, when is it appropriate for them to discover more.
* JZ: Do you know other specs that cover webid and solid oidc?
* TT: How did we get to the topic of scenario two in your diagram. That's implemented. So basically instead of we can't point to a spec or document that ESS has but we have to mention but don't go into detail.
* JZ: Just part of the discovery process.
* SC: Jeff covered that area just fine. Whhen you talk abotu owner, or you epect it to be like that - who owns it? You own it or you disagree.
* SC: There is a varience between implementations. It needs to use Extended profiles in orderr to work, ESS does not need that. A good spec will have a good amount of variablity. The spec should stay a bit back, you can allow these configurations to happen. Do not say too much, link to different parts. An implementaion migth not want you to update that profile document - they it doesn't.
* SC: NSS could completely block teh user of editing their webID. you can do it today. you can remove your own read/write access. You have control but app cannot do anything with it. That switch is always there. One moment you may have it and one moment not.
* JZ: the user was the one who denied his/her acess but when the server does it.. hmm..
* VB: user can, it is about the app.
* SC: it is an implementation detail. You leave it to an implmenetation detail. Main config does not change: profile, and extende dprofile. one implementaiot migth block you off to write o either document.
* JZ: I find it completely agains the Solid fylosophy. I do not say we have the same conditinos on teh WebID and all the data on it that the Solid Protocol defines for a storage.
* SC: there migth be different reasons why. IN the ESS case, it is always not going to allow you. You find it out when you make the request. ESS coould configure it to enable it tomorrow without chnaging architecture. I do not think we need to worry about it more. If that implementation will not allow you to edit it. I get about how useful it is. URI ownership comes down to DNS. I am delegating it to the server.
* SC: if I want my webId to be on a Solid Server I trust it will do requests on my behalf. I am delegating. As an owner I still own it (URI).
* JZ: how do we say in spec terms: this is what a profile is? Edits it, conforms to a certain shape?
* SC: See the WAC spec. They talk about the data model. If a app wants to discover the extended profile, looks for this predicate. A WebId profile has one or more seeAlso and can be followed. Responds to the use cases. LIke in WAC: in order a server to authorize, it needs to look for this 4 things. You can describe it in different ways and it is ok. When it comes to a server if it has access it needs to have this shape for it. A solid WebID profile needs to have this shape for it.
* JF: that makes sense.

ACTION: VB and JZ to write up their point on the topic and present to Tim.

POST-MEETING NOTE FROM JZ - I am revising my opinion and will probably end up agreeing with Virginia, so no need to take this action yet.

* SC: Variability in Specifications, MUST read (homework :) <https://www.w3.org/TR/spec-variability/> ( <https://github.com/solid/specification/issues/138> )
