# W3C Solid Community Group: WebID Profile

* Date: 2022-10-11
* Call: https://meet.jit.si/solid-profile
* Chat: https://gitter.im/solid/webid-profile
* Repository: https://github.com/solid/webid-profile

## Present

* [Virginia Balseiro](https://virginiabalseiro.com/#me)
* [Sarven Capadisli](https://csarven.ca/#i)
* Tim Berners-Lee
* Jeff Zucker


---

## Announcements

### Meeting Recordings and Transcripts

* No audio or video recording, or automated transcripts without consent. Meetings are transcribed and made public. If consent is withheld by anyone, recording/retention must not occur.
* Join queue to talk.

### Participation and Code of Conduct

* [Solid Code of Conduct](https://github.com/solid/process/blob/main/code-of-conduct.md), [Positive Work Environment at W3C: Code of Ethics and Professional Conduct](https://www.w3.org/Consortium/cepc/)
* Operating principle for effective participation is to allow access across disabilities, across country borders, and across time. Feedback on tooling and meeting timing is welcome.
* If this is your first time, welcome! please introduce yourself.

### Scribes

* Sarven
* Virginia

### Introductions

* name: text

---

## Topics

### Prior ACTIONs
* VB: document use cases for Solid Profile (incl. inbox, storage): https://github.com/solid/webid-profile/issues/55 and preferences file: https://github.com/solid/webid-profile/issues/5 - in progress.
* VB: trustedApp - in progress.


### Circumstances under which profiles are used or shared
URL: https://github.com/solid/webid-profile/issues/52

* SC: This is an editorial issue. Hoping we can use these as a guide to organize a document. Introduction would be uses of WebID, profile, purposes, etc. Specific sections include some requirements. Before explaining what to use, we can explain that anonymous profiles are possible. Talk about purposes like authentication, authorization, etc (full list in issue). How to connect different identities, and purposes for each one. Not a requirement but possible to show whether profile is "latest" state of identity. If later there is a spec that focuses on any of these aspects, they can refer to this one. There are discussions happening around these in other spaces. How to link identities to each other and define whether they are mergeable or not. 
* JZ: It's a great list. I suggest: 

ACTION: JZ write an introduction covering the above in a general way, refer to use cases for specific points. Provide examples for different cases such as private/public profile.


### Type Indexes
URL: https://solid.github.io/type-indexes/

* SC: Editorial commitments.
* SC: Requirement level between webid-profile and type-indexes.
* TBL: The current ED looks like in good shape.
* SC: WebID Profile does not require TI (Type Indexes), we need something that talks about it.
* JZ: We had discussed the WebID Profile spec should cover how to discover stuff with TI. 

ACTION: VB create issue to add link to TI. 

* SC: Implementers need to look at both specs.
* JZ: What level of requirement?
* TBL: Philosophically an app doesn't need to look at anything. For the discovery mechanism, if given an RDF type, then you should do it this way.
* SC: Sounds close to what JZ is saying.
* JZ: We should describe that in webid-profile and see type-indexes for full details.
* TBL: What about preferences?
* TBL: Have we got a pointer to the functionality requirement that WebID and Solid IDs may need to be in separate documents.
* VB: Not that I know of.
* SC: So problem doesn't exist :)
* JZ: A lot of devs got upset because they couldn't operate the same way. So I asked around. And it was mentioned about how IdPs and they may use different protocols in which Solid is in to serve the identity.
* TBL: Could we say, that's them. But if they are Solid compatible... can X give the profile with #me or can it not do that?
* JZ: Does with `foaf:primaryTopicOf` and pointer to somewhere else on a Solid server where the Solid profile is.
* JZ: If we can convince people to help move them to the Solid profile, then no need to revise. If you are going to put the WebID document separate from the Solid profile then you need to transfer the request over there.
* SC: Like a redirect or the property?
* JZ: Redirect.
* JZ: WebID Profile says 303. Some servers redirect to an app to edit the profile.
* SC: But the resource is not about WebID. Sounds like a misuse of redirect. If you go to WebID and redirects to another URL the description is not the same as what you started with.
* 
* SC: Can we see an example?
* SC: I'm curious to see what the description looks like
* VB: https://id.inrupt.com/fraubalseiro
* SC: Seeing 303 to `https://id.inrupt.com/fraubalseiro?lookup`. Description seems fine.
* SC: So are we now considering whether redirect is sufficient or solid:profileDocument is still needed?
* VB: Unless x decides to change, we need solid:profileDocument.
* JZ: TBL is bringing it up and as to why we need this drastic change to profiles.
* SC: Good point. I suggest go with one approach, remove solid:profileDocument for now, and let those who really need it to argument and we evaluate. If there are enough arguments for this, we can include, if not enough we don't need it.
* VB: The problem is that some devs would be frustrated that their apps will not work with server x.
* SC: Those apps should not be writing implementation-specific behaviors. 
* JZ: If we don't say anything about second profile doc, and apps don't make changes, they won't be able to access x.
* SC: Why is x forcing apps to do that? We need more data to support the inclusion of this. 
* JZ: That just leaves the question dragging.
* SC: Ask people to comment/participate.  An implementation does something not defined by a spec - vendor-specific. 
* JZ: Virginia go back to x and tell them that we are not including that. So far they have not participated in the discussion or change implementation to match spec.

ACTION: VB to reach out to implementors and ask for feedback/issues/arguments. 

* SC: With the solid:profileDocument-like perspective, is it true that the dereferenced WebID conforms to WebID 1.0 ED (Turtle MUST and so on)?
* SC: Which property (`solid:profileDocument` or something like `solid:webid`) is intended: https://github.com/solid/specification/issues/376#issuecomment-1266825545 , https://github.com/solid/specification/issues/376#issuecomment-1266860879
