## date

  2022-02-15

## present

  Jeff, Virginia, Timea

## notes

Topics on the agenda:
### Regarding solid:Community/solid:Organization
* 1) release 1st version of profile spec with WHAT IS now implemented (not includ solid:Organization)
* 2) add Communities to 1st profile spec because it was already underway (inlcude solid:Organization)
* Points of discussion:
* how about writing it out in an appendix first
* the reason is to be faster in writing out the first version
* agreement to keep it as second prio - we will at least copy the discussion in markdown to have it for later

### Clarify solid:privateTypeIndex predicate
* where it can exist?
* Points of discussion:
* NNS puts it in the webID profile doc upon creation so we have to describe it as it is now.
* in solidOS code we actually make a difference and the private one is in preference files: <https://github.com/solid/solid-ui/blob/ea33598dce93d43d9a960c114f9d08be648003e9/src/authn/authn.ts#L349>
* if load is looking in both places then it will never operate well
* for reading it would mean to change all NSS
* same applied to seeAlso and sameAs (see next topic)

### seeAlso and sameAs links - where must app look for them?
* Tim pointed out that sameAs is very powerful e.g. A is sameAs B means all statements about B apply to A. This is more complicated than seeAlso which merely says "there are more statements about A over there".  So for the spec we should continue to require apps to follow seeAlso in the profile document but not require them to follow sameAs.  OTOH rdflib might want a "sameAs mode" in which it was capable of following sameAs links.

### public/private profile documents
* The interop panel is [discussing WebID documents that are not publicly readable](https://github.com/solid/solid-oidc/issues/80) ... do we want to say that the Profile Document (whether or not it is the same as the WebID Document) SHOULD be publicly readable?
* Tim: the profile MUST be publicly readable
* but should the webID document be publicly readable or not? [Jeff addition: that's not in scope - there is no such thing as a private WebID document now, it's something being discussed for the future.  I brought it up here because we need to make a statement about the Profile Document must be publicly readable.

### Types (solid:ProfileDocument,solid:Organization,etc.) - include now?
* separate question from Communities which is a more complex issue
* See: https://gitter.im/solid/profile-spec?at=620b9c8d3e52f56a2606792d
* proposal: to keep this in for better explanation of the webId profile
* team agrees to put it in the 1st version

### Listed/Unlisted type registry index resources -> same as public/private
* do we even need this wording?
* Proposal accepted: drop listed and unlisted wording.

### Any timeplan ahead when we release a draft version of the spec?
* discovery, personal & organisational
* discovery most important for developers - fairly close to finish - trustedApps and typeIndexes open
* Jeff: draft of discovery part - within ~30 -> we agreed on March 20th as the first draft release of the discovery part.
* What do we mean by discovery: storages, preference, typeIndex, trsutedApps, oidcIssuer, seeAlso, difference bwteeen webId and profile doc -> relate to structure of data rather than identification.
* solid:oidc missing information should not block us - we should be clear on it now already. [this applies to the above issue with them possibly making WebID document private - we will assume the status quo rather than waiting for them to decide, In regard to the oidcIssuer and the relationship between the WebId and Profile documents, I think Aaron and Elf and Justin are fine with the way I've described it.]

### Shape files
* Tim creted for us some shape files  on personal profile content. Organizational is still a TODO
* Virginia shared Inrupt's shapes https://github.com/inrupt/pod-browser/blob/main/shapes/profile/person.shex
