## date

  2022-03-01

## present

  Jeff, Virginia, Timea, Sarven, Tim

* Today's agenda is trustedApps
## Intro on Trusted Apps

* Tim: TrustedApps comes from the way the browser works. Browser assumes there is no trust between different domains. 
For example something like MediaKraken. You would put apps like that in it. 
By default having a timer on trustedApps - otherwise the pod manager has to block it. 
The complicated thing about this is the process. The process one goes through - login - asking you if you trust this app (the first time)? - then it lands in the trusted apps section. 

* Example in SolidOS
`
[
    acl:mode acl:Append, acl:Read, acl:Write;
    acl:origin <https://sharonstrats.inrupt.net>
],
`
* To trust an app means to trust the domain it is running on. See example above. 

## Discussions

* Jeff:How to navigate this best: how to recommend an app to get itself trusted for what it needs to be trusted for? (in collaboratkon with acl)
* Answer: if an app needs to have access only to a folder or a specific type of data that requires more work. We do not have that in SolidOS. 
* Should for this specification just say: either you get access to all or nothing?
* This is related to workflow. Trusted App turns off the cors checking only. We really need this for SolidOS. 
* another way to do is: here are the apps that have full access to your root directory? Do you only want to have it access only on folder?
* in solidOs is same origin it means it is trusted. You get a 403 - wrong origin or http problem: when it sees an origin - SolidOS should check if it is part of the trusted app or not. Or it is a native app. 
* priotitize in SolidOS this in the sharing-pane.
* Is this option implementedin SolidOS?
* Probably this is not implemented for any server. 
* It would be good to have it. 
* Still not clear how we should recoomend it to app devs.
* we can combine it with Type Indexes - for example: I want access to your Adrress Book and you use the Type Index to find where the instance/container is.
* acl:trsutedApp is not in the vocab now
* in wac we were talking to have a client web id in addition to acl:origin to have acl:client. And acp has something similar. 
* We should be documenting what is out there without choosing a direction now in our recommendations. 
* it should be part of profile - be part of the shape -
* documenting existing things too is also important to do.
* in terms of existing Apps -  the flow depends on the server - how does it actualy work?
* the automatic flow: user initiates action to use an app - the server (probably) shows this list of checkboxes asking for consent - 
* webID owner can also do it manually in the preferences section of the SolidOS profile interface. 
* ESS does not have any of this. 
* how about CSS?
* data-interoperability-panel has its own way: https://solid.github.io/data-interoperability-panel/specification/#authorization-agent-discovery
* we should mention it exists but not document it. 
* is it is so different - maybe we should even chose to not say anything...
* Sarven: trustedApp is a NSS thing, is not part of wac becaue it was still experimental back then. 


## primaryTopicOf feedback on language

* the current language sounds like a spec instead of just a documentation. Now it seems like it had a review and it was discussed and detailed.
* they will ask us what was our decision process?
* at least have a reference in place as an aswer.
* we never say it MUST do it.
* and still it was interpreted like that. Advice: the previous version was better. 
* contradiction: sameAs HAD same fucntion as primaryTopicOf and NOW there is a decision on how primaryTopicOf should be used. (example argument: most apps work with sameAs)
* this was an example on the different between spec and documentation. 80% do it this way -> we recommend this approach -> this goes into recommendation language than. 
* contra argument: it does not influence any non Inrupt app how it is written now. 
* we should consider the rewording on MUST, SHOULD, MAY if we want to reconsider our approach. 
* There is a diference in language between we want to document what is or we document what the majority does. 
* our recommendation now is so that apps can find stuff - we are not recommending that apps are structured that way. Maybe language can be fixed to be more evident. Virginia is planning to do that editing for us. 
* Sarven: why is it written from a point of an app?
* It is not written to a server or a pod provider, so who else could it be? Apps are responsible for maintaining the data. 
* client spec or data model spec are some good examples for languages.
* 'there is a data model for apps' - is another view - 'how a client can behave to process the data' is another. Look at the data model specs, WAC spec for example. First it explains what acl:agent mean, what is needs to have with description and then there is a separate part on how does a server process that when it is availabel or not (evaluation of it). One part is data model and the second part how to use it. This must be refering to somewhere - maybe in the protocol. 
* some explanation how we started doing it now: main portion is aimed at discovery - what most apps are going to do. Then appendix: if they do not exist, it is how it should be created... We separate this because apps are not gonna need the second part and we can be clear where we think where things can be written. Reading is broather than writing because there are so many options out there. So for reading we do introduce a prioritization yes... We hsould not confuse this with what a shape should contain. 
* CONCLUSION on this topic: lets first say what we wanna say and then focuse on how we want to get it accros best way possible.


* to be continues on both open topics

## Todos:
* Jeff works on intro page - which can be used next time as a direct feedback session with Sarven on language
* Virginia will investigate how trustedApp topic works on ESS
* Timea will write everything mentioned today in the trusted app started md and look into how NSS does the 'ask for authorization' page. 


## References:
* In solid acl:TrustedApp <https://github.com/solid/vocab/issues/64> 