# W3C Solid Community Group: WebID Profile

* Date: 2022-09-14
* Call: <https://meet.jit.si/solid-profile>
* Chat: <https://gitter.im/solid/webid-profile>
* Repository: <https://github.com/solid/webid-profile>

## Present

* [Virginia Balseiro](https://virginiabalseiro.com/#me)
* [Sarven Capadisli](https://csarven.ca/#i)
* [Tim Berners-Lee](https://www.w3.org/People/Berners-Lee/)
* [Jeff Zucker](https://jeff-zucker.solidcommunity.net/profile/card#me)

---

## Announcements

### Meeting Recordings and Transcripts

* No audio or video recording, or automated transcripts without consent. Meetings are transcribed and made public. If consent is withheld by anyone, recording/retention must not occur.
* Join queue to talk.

### Participation and Code of Conduct

* [Solid Code of Conduct](https://github.com/solid/process/blob/main/code-of-conduct.md), [Positive Work Environment at W3C: Code of Ethics and Professional Conduct](https://www.w3.org/Consortium/cepc/)
* Operating principle for effective participation is to allow access across disabilities, across country borders, and across time. Feedback on tooling and meeting timing is welcome.
* If this is your first time, welcome! please introduce yourself.

### Scribes

* Sarven

### Introductions

* name: text

---

## Topics

### JZ notes for a new model

URL: <https://github.com/solid/webid-profile/blob/main/notes/New%20Model.md>

* SC: Is this intended to be personal notes or a proposal?

#### VB's response

* VB: Wrote comments for things that seemed important. Wasn't sure if this should be a proposal or an issue.

> ### An interoperably usable Solid Profile Document will

> * be locatable by dereferencing the WebID URI as described in the WebID spec

* VB: Yes.
* SC: I take this as a given.

> * provide a link to a verifying authority (for one example, solid:oidcIssuer, see Solid-OIDC spec)

* VB: Yes to including this but let's discuss if a requirement.
* JZ: Rather than rquirements, we are sayuing if we want it to be usable, this is what you need to do. Not sure if it is useful without a verifying authority.
* TBL: Usable by other people. If part of the login process, then you can put the verifying authority, but when I look at your profile, I don't. From the point of the profile, I dont' think it is conforming to that aspect. You need it for conformance with the Solid OIDC login.
* SC: The profile is useful in and itself. Plenty of use cases that would not need ot inspect those statements to make use of a profile.

> * provide zero or more rdfs:seeAlso links to extended profile documents (also defined in the WebID spec)

* VB: I guess this ties into what an "extended profile" means, which for me is a bit unclear: is an "extended profile" always a Solid document, or could it be the result of putting together different kinds of documents (that could be linked through `rdfs:seeAlso`)? According to this definition: [this definition](https://github.com/solid/solid-spec/blob/master/solid-webid-profiles.md#extended-profile) that would be the latter. Do we agree with this definition?
* SC: I dont think in this particularl discussion, we should look at it form the point of view whether that document is a "Solid document" or on a Solid server or sometihng. I think we just want to basically know if that extended document is expected to include some statements about the WebID we are already inspecting.

* VB: It might be worth writing down these definitions (Solid Profile, Extended Profile, etc.) clearly before or while we are having this discussion, as it is starting to get a bit confusing/too vague.

* VB: Seems like there are two main reasons why a user can have one or more extended profiles, and these are:

* to add accessory information to their basic profile (rdfs:seeAlso seems appropriate)
* to have their basic profile separate from their WebID profile (for whatever reason, including things around permissions) - rdfs:seeAlso might not be appropriate or there might be better options (including solid:profileDocument). Should we mention what is currently in practice (foaf:isPrimaryTopicOf) for this particular case?

* JZ: I proposed solid:profileDocument as a way to say that the profile document is not same as the other... webid is undert ehc ontrol of the serer an dnot necessarily editable by the solid protocol. imo that shoul dbe something that points ot solid profile document with that predicate and that proflie document would follow the solid protocol and branch out to related documents. a single link from webid document to solid profile document in which case they are different and that we can describe what the oslid profile document can be. personally i believe those two kinds of identities you mentioned should be seprate. profile the first way. webid has ??? and differnet aspects.. and some parts i see and other parts can be seen by others. my dating profile has no relationship to my other profile and different groups can see them. that means we can have different webids. the point for multiple parts of it... everyone is going to know im jeff but not everyone is going to my phone number.
* TBL: someo people looked at MIT for this.. there are different pods and i can drag them into my contacts .. and they could be merged. the moment i see my contact information and profile information about each one.. public progile about gaming or for professional. if i want to see it compact, i see it like a contacts where it merges all the information. a rational names... numbers. i think switching between for contacts... for contacts pane, i got the option when they are pushed together or separate. im happy to use that.. and for contacst.
* JZ: Do you believe that single WebID should cover multiple personas of an individual even though they want to keep it separate?
* TBL: If they will have mlutiople personas then they have different WebIDs. There may be information about me in the community / like this project or solidos team. What is possible is that my membership in the org then i want people tuse that in that context.
* VB: re JZ, you are saying that we should talk about Solid Profile and essentialyl say that if you dereference the WebID, you get a profile, ..... if you dont get a solid profile, then how do we determine that? then if you don't get a profile there.. and that you should look for a solidprofiledocument and that' where the solid profile is.
* JZ: And th way to determine that is if it is available for edit with solid protocol. I mean by WebID owner.
* TBL: The way to tell what's a profile is ... there is core informatoin that should be available.. liek the name, or img.. or nickname... so basically a progfile must have a vcard, then if it matche s- that's the core/fundmanetal thing.. if you don't get that then check. you don't want to have to login to find out if it can be editable.
* JZ: Do you believe that if I go to a WebID document, if it is not something editable by the Solid Protocol e.g., no PUT/PATCH on WebID profile? To me that's a webid progfile that serves to identify me but not something i can .
* TBL: the way to find a profile is.. follow the link to the profile.
* VB: if you can't edit, that's always the case when you look at someone's profile.
* JZ: If there is a link to a solidprofile follow it, if not, you are already there.

* TBL: I disagree re being able to edit the WebID in that it should be separted. You have to break the profile. The equivalent is you can edit the solid profile.. what it points ot or one link away.
* SC: But... AWWW, URI Ownership..
* TBL: Edited Solid OIDC works, you get a dummy profile.
* SC: Yea, Solid OIDC here today.. gone tomorrow. Why are we defining Solid WebID Profile based on a particular way that one authentication works. If we were discussing this when WebID-TLs was the way to auth, then this topic wouldn't even come up. You would go and directly update the document that the WebID dereferences.
* TBL: yeao, I know. we decided two ways of workign. it is not much complkicated.
* SC: I can live with multiple approaches but that solidprofiledocument sort of clashe with self-describbing documents. the URI of that solidprofiledocument is different. it is not about the main webdi. it is something different. we are only saying that the samenaitcs is equivalent. sameAs perhaps.
* TBL: In the solid profile, it is literally about the RDF triples in the profile document who got the webid as their subject.
* SC: Yea, again, self-descriptiveness. I think sameAs resolves actually. if you ahve webid uri sameas uri of the solidprofiledocument, wouldn't that work?
* JZ: how do you know you are at the actual profile.
* TBL: At any point in the system we can use sameases, if you are careful you can put them together.. and we can do that with range/domain.. and with basic sameas.. but moment the working at this level is we are not using same as. we are not suggesting that apps should follow. if we did, we go to solidos community and ask.. should we increaes the inference level of clients with sameas processing. could make the system more powerful but we are only using ti when we need it in the architecture.
* JZ: were you suggesting the sameas in the webid to point to solidprofile.
* SC: I acutlal ymeant the other way around but it doesn't matter.
* TBL: i think he meant that when you get the profile document... which is what you'd logically do but we are not expecting clients to understand that.
* VB: Essentially we have implementations where they'd link to solidprofiledocument.
* VB: what is currently implemented is isPrimaryTopicOf with only one?
* JZ: i think what we are discussing from how we move from webid profile document to solid profile document.. and is there only one or can there be multiple.
* JZ: single predicate pointing there but VB is saying that maybe there shoul dbe multiple ones.
* VB: There could be multiple. I was htinking whatever is webid dereferences is the solid profile.. if it can't be editable you can go to others.
* TBL: suppose im a profile editor, im concerned if there are lots of profiles, none o fthem is your main profile, then i don't know where to put new informaiton. it is easier with a profile on one document
* VB: for example, i have Google browser.. for my school stuff and personal stuff. everyt tim ei open cChrome, i get two avatars.. and which to sign-in.. or degault. it will always go there unless i switch.
* TBL: I think you get that in Solid with multiple WebIDs. So i can have different things..
* SC: So optional to have solidprofiledocument statement?
* VB: It is either there or not.
* TBL: If my app can't find some of your info in the main webid profile document, it could look into the other doucment. we are saying that the basic is you have a profile, preferences, type indexes.
* VB: Currently in x, if you get a profile, until you provision a pod, .. so no pod, no profile. So, ti hink apps should be ready to handle.
* VB: re preferencesFile, if an app can't edit my webid, then i need to add them to the official profile.
* SC: i wouldn't onsider something like inbox or storage a preference or at least how preferencesFile is intended.
* TBL: basically if you want to put something in .. an app needs to find something, the discovery process is... if private thing, it doesn't have to be in the prefernecsfiles but it goes there normally. that's where we are designing it.
* JZ: Someone in the discussion suggested that we change the name.. privateProfile. It is not preferences, it is a start for private profile tree.
* TBL: some of hte things like languages you speak, they go into the profile.
* SC: but
* TBL: if you are looking at my profile.. im using the x ontoolgoy, it has a ppointer to a public id in european database, which has 27 different languages.. for computer programmer. ESCO id. in my profile i can put computer programmar. your software can see ??? th eapp knows you prefer swedish, and when you look at my profile it is translated to swedish.
* JZ: i think preferences doesn't seem to do what preferences does. so when i fill in forms, it knows.. so my actual in prferences and nick name in my public profile. that's not so much of a preferences. that goes to me goes beyond preferences.
* SC: Is anyone publishing tha tway?
* TBL: you said tha tyou prefer that my app uses my nick.
* TBL: Iyt can be lots of things. we could call it different.. but easy name.
* SC: i don't think we need ot mess with that name now.

### Interest in a topic for TPAC 2022

* SC: perhaps intro to webid-profile or ask questions to be useful
* TBL: how many people?
* SC: some w3c-wide ..
* TBL: lure people in.

---

### MOVE TO 2022-09-20 meeting agenda

> * be modifiable by the Agent the WebID denotes (denotes as defined in the WebID spec, modifiable to be defined, but without specifying any particular method)

* VB: yes

> ### An interoperably usable Solid Profile Document will probably also

> * contain one ldp:inbox link (or it could be in an extended document)
>* contain one or more space:storage links (or they could be in extended documents)

* VB: Not sure if these should be requirements, or we should document use cases and how clients should proceed if these are not found.

> ### When reading an interoperably usable Solid Profile, apps should load

> 1. the document the WebID URI dereferences to
> 2. the objects of all rdfs:seeAlso triples in that document if there are any and the objects are accessible

> The Solid Profile will now consist of all triples loaded in this process with the WebID as subject.

* VB: Does #2 need to be a requirement? Clients may follow them if they need to discover extended profiles, but not required (as they might not need to, depending on how they approach it and what data they need).

> ### When writing an interoperably usable Extended Profile Document, apps

> * can not depend on other apps following rdfs:seeAlso links inside Extended Profile Documents
> * can not depend on apps reading triples in Extended Profile Documents that do not have WebID as subject

* VB: Agree that this is the case, but does this need to be explicitly said? Maybe this could be part of a "best practices" document.

> ### Included at start of project, no longer included in this spec
>
> * solid:oidcIssuer - mention generally about isssuers, refer users to WebID and Solid-OIDC specs
> * acl:trustedApp - omit, only in one implementation, exposes data
> * typeIndexes - move to their own spec

* VB: Yes.

> * preferencesFile - omit, keep this spec orthagonal to permissions

* VB: Should we include and describe its use without getting into permissions?

> * owl:sameAs - omit, too costly, apps free to use but without expectation all apps will follow

* VB: We can include it and describe its use without making it a requirement.

> * foafPrimaryTopicOf - omit,  use rdfs:seeAlso instead

* VB: `* typo: foaf:isPrimaryTopicOf`
* VB: We can include this and describe its use without making it a requirement.

> * solid:account - omit, provides nothing space:storage doesn't

* VB: Yes.
