# W3C Solid Community Group: WebID Profile

* Date: 2022-05-24T16:00:00Z
* Call: https://meet.jit.si/solid-profile
* Chat: https://gitter.im/solid/webid-profile
* Repository: https://github.com/solid/webid-profile

## Present

* Virginia Balseiro (VB)
* Jeff Zucker (JZ)
* Timea Turdean (TT)
* [Sarven Capadisli](https://csarven.ca/#i) (SC)
* Nick Mondada

---

## Announcements

### Meeting Recordings and Transcripts

* No audio or video recording, or automated transcripts without consent. Meetings are transcribed and made public. If consent is withheld by anyone, recording/retention must not occur.
* Join queue to talk.

### Participation and Code of Conduct

* [Solid Code of Conduct](https://github.com/solid/process/blob/main/code-of-conduct.md), [Positive Work Environment at W3C: Code of Ethics and Professional Conduct](https://www.w3.org/Consortium/cepc/)
* Operating principle for effective participation is to allow access across disabilities, across country borders, and across time. Feedback on tooling and meeting timing is welcome.
* If this is your first time, welcome! please introduce yourself.

### Scribes

* Sarven

## Introductions

* NM: We were working on authorization flow. someone is working on access control.. they need to discover which app you want ot use .. either authorize or reject that. as i was going through that. this is something we need more publicly for anyone to see and that' show i needed coming here.. perhaps part of webid profile ... talked with Virginia about extended profile.. read the spec.. went back to her and asked.. these webid profiles and what they are trying to achieve.. figured i can join the regular meeting and see what you are doing. my goal here is to listen in and understand the webid spec.
* JZ: The thing iI can say is that our spec doesn't cover authn.. we think it is great but we don't handle authz flow. in our part of the webid-profile spec. trusted app was the predecessor for the auth agents. we decided that it doesn't' have a future.. there is no spec that covers it. we don't have that kind of decision here. we are basically opting out here. part of it can be covered elsewhere and how servers handle app authz can be up to the server.
* NM: I went through the webid-profile spec. more than coming here what to say i just want to listen. to understand a bit more. maybe have something to contribute. for now i just read it. don't want to jump into conclusion.
* JZ: if you bring up things that are confusion, that's to our benefit. we very much want to hear your impression.
* JZ: Was my answer to Nick in how everyone looks at it?
* TT: I agree. Just have an addition. Important to understand what we try to achieve with the spec. We have it complicated to go beyond what is implemented or in place. So we wrote what we understood of webid-profile. i wish in the future we can clarify things like authorization. so, we had to define a line. hopefully getting away with less. lets not get into a huge debate about it. we're also not experts/have thesis about it.
* NM: Is this describing what's out there or what should be the norm in the future
* JZ: Both. Starting with what we have today. Describes a process for things. Once interoperability is well adopted ??? What this presents is an easy flow for authz. In the future types and features well adopted then type indexes may not be used. I don't think right now it is subjected to change. Preferences to files, OIDC issuers, storages, .. those are the things don't conflict with interop spec or another spec in the horizon. everything besides the type index is solid.
* TT: Now we are in the phase of getting feedback from the community. Curious to see how it goes. What is about to be accepted is the first version to build on from. From my developer I want to know what I can do right now. Servers are quite diverse. right now if you want to build an app, it is difficult. Even our spec is not going to be it but bring it closer. I'm super curious to get feedback.
* VB: I agree with JZ's summary.


## Topics

### Progress on things
* JZ: I've been working on developing and implementation. Reading a profile. Reads the storage , type index and writing to the profile. Interesting things. I discovered type indexes, new type registration for a type that wasn't there and so we needed to mention that in the profile.
* JZ: I'm wondering how much we should be talking about needing in the WebID Profile documents themselves, storages in particular. Whether people need to go into seeAlso. We can discuss that later. One of things that came up during implementation.
* TT: Did you use SolidOS or use your own code?
* JZ: Some imported from SolidUI. What I want is something that will operate regardless app's ability. if public app, it gets public profile. if private, gets private but doesn't ??? and corrects it if wrong. I think those are confusing / logic in SolidOS.
* TT: Details we can work out tomorrow. I'm also working on the same code - refactoring what Tim did.
* VB: i'm working on the draft. I'm wondering if we should include something more explicit about trusted apps privacy concerns - whether to include in the draft. Also about Tim's question about versioning.


### General suggestion on topics
* SC: Pressing PRs, issues, random chats/discussion.. evaluate whether to be an issue.


### Add WebID Profile as work item
URL: https://github.com/solid/specification/pull/413

* VB: Comment from Tim requesting we add a version. Should we do that now or later? Sarven suggested we do now.
* JZ: I'm fine with that 1.0.
* VB: I'll make that change then.

ACTION: VB to follow up on the change.

* TT: I have to run.

### Document know privacy issues with Type Indexes and Trusted Apps
URL: https://github.com/solid/webid-profile/issues/16

* VB: My question around this issue is whether we want to specify privacy concerns. For trusted apps we made a separate document on why we didn't include them as one of the predicates in the document. Do we want to include these explicitly in the draft. also in the issue there is an alternative.. I'm inclined to think no to documenting but want to hear from others.
* JZ: I think it can use a tiny bit more explanation but we do refer to interop on different ways of handling. We already said it. Perhaps it needs a bit of wording but it isn't a major change/focus on.
* VB: We have that in a separate document.. do we want to move that into the main draft? It says it explicitly why.
* JZ: I don't think it is our place in the spec to discuss how servers implement stuff. I'd say this is how different servers will handle it. Should we put more into it about the concerns.
* VB Decision not to include trustedApps: https://github.com/solid/webid-profile/blob/main/meetings/2022-05-24.md
* VB: How exactly do we want to handle that?
* SC: Suggest splitting the issue apart. Don't bother with hashing out the alternative right now - especially when the adoption is unclear.
* VB: I wouldn't put it in terms of this being an alternative to trustedApps. We are not at a point to make that suggestion. We currently capture that is okay. The thing is we don't cover trustedApps, we mention it. no need to list / note why it is not there or the alternative.
* SC: Okay to have a consideration section - mentioned that in one of the earlier meetings.
* NM: Could say we are documenting what's there - it is imperfect but fine. Or say this is the future / let's try to work out the spec based on that. Hard to have one foot on each continent.
* VB: Some things are different e.g., with trusted apps.
* NM: Only covering today.
* JZ: What it says .. "this spec covers only those predicates.." to me that kind of says what's in scope and out of scope. perhaps we have a more explicit description on what each server does.
* VB: What do we do about trusted apps? Link to it as trusted apps that has the considerations
* JZ: There is an old spec with the trust apps on how to do trusted apps. But we should probably have an intermediate page about it.
* VB: We have our notes about trusted apps in our repo. maybe we use that? or have a new one?
* SC: There are people with strong views - I suggest making concrete PROPOSALs that can be accepted/rejected..
* VB: Trying to understand what we do now - whether to link to the minutes or elsewhere...
* JZ: We should say as little as possible. We don't say anything about implementations.
* VB: Or if at all say anything about privacy considerations about trusted apps.
* SC: Don't need to say anything about any implementation.
* JZ: The other concern in the issue is - my understanding: if an app wants to share its data and doesn't care about other apps then there is no issue in putting into the type index. there is no requirement that app has to. We can be clear about that. the purpose of the type index is to share data. if your app is private, there is no reason to put it in the type index. it shouldn't ba security concern.. it should be when/why use it.
* SC: "Considerations" is not a problem. It is good to have them in all specs. Having them doesn't mean an alternative is needed.
* JZ: Anything else?

ACTION: JZ to respond to issue

ACTION: Revise the SHOULDs in the type indexes on when an app wants to make data public/shareable.

ACTION: Review with Tim on trustedApp


### Question on the public channel from Nick Form
* TT: "the public type index should be publicly writeable. When would an app or agent with no permissions to my pod need to add to the public type index?"
* JZ: Perhaps best to wait for TT to discuss this.
* SC: See if an issue is necessary or should be resolved in chat itself.
* JZ: This particular thing is important that definitely needs to be solved. need to discuss.. whether to create issue.. Important any way. For the spec.. what is private or private or restricted. It is important to address and fix. Not necessarily in one place they mentioned but overall. I'd consider this as high priority item. We should recognise as such.


### Consider creating WebID Profile Panel
* SC: Create a bit more interest.
* JZ: Sure, let's talk about it next time.
* VB: Nod.


### New meeting time
* JZ: We can figure out an hour early or whatever..
* VB: We can discuss that next time.
