## date

  2022-02-22

## present

  Jeff, Virginia, Timea, Sarven

## notes

Topics on the agenda:
## If we have multiple extended profiles - must a dev load all extended profiles and use the info - or do they randomly pick? (`seeAlso` link)
* there is 2 ways to look at it:
* 1) convenience - link to friends can be in any of those documents
* 2) critical is for privacy - I do not want the public to know that I am friends to a specific person -> this is why there are seeAlso files.
* `primaryTopicOf` can only be one?
* answer: yes (no multiple values)
* Conclusion: basically there is only one main doc for the webID
* for reading: you cannot assume a resource is in one dedicated place
* for writing: we can recommend/suggest where.
* we are recommending there is only one `primaryTopicOf` and the others are linked through 'seeAlso' (which may be there)
* `primaryTopicOf` should be the first one checked for reading.
* the diagram from <https://gitter.im/solid/profile-spec?at=62150b46d1b64840db3452c1> was a bit discussed.

## helper document
* profile document is sum of all things
* a helper document is what ESS uses - has all the stuff that usually NSS has in main document: type of agent, preference file, name, inbox.
* in ESS has the issues, storage and foaf:primaryTopic

## on the topic of shapes
* it seems like Shapes can only be created on the profile information. This is because other resources like typeIndex can be in different places.
* rather than saying where to find resources one should only give advice where to look.
* conclusion: in our context, shapes cannot be applied on one particular file but to the structure of a graph rather.

## typeIndex
* Timea checked in the first version of TypeIndex, Jeff feedbacked it. It is still in the making.
* for explanations we should say non-normative. Keep should, may, must separate from non-normative.
* since information about typeIndexes are not discussed in the protocol and only in previous recommendations we need to also explain why they exist.

## introduction to document
* will contain an overview, why, which predicates (non-normative).

## extended profile
* Virginia wants to take it over
* seeAlso - required or optional?
* how many seeAlso links are there? 
* conclusion: we should revisit. One conclusion: there should not be a seeAlso in a seeAlos - one should not be required to follow. But on the other hand people should be required ot look at them. 
* should an app ask the user: should the app load additional data? 
* example in dokiely it goes in seeAlso and sameAs as far as it can with constraint it will not revisit places it visited already. 
* an application should also make a suggestion on how may seeAlsos they follow - like a limit - like the redirect limit in browsers.
* conclusion: we can make a recommandation for an app that creates seeAlso.

## how to record agendas?
* hashtag is github is down otherwise create md for the day

## trustedApps where should we start?
* they are not in the preference doc
* does the server demand that there is one?
* we will invite Tim to talk about it
* is described in the WAC spec, it will probably be added in the vocabulary
* acl:client might be introduced in the future - so it might be used moving forward - all is just being discussed now
* should we maybe not say anything? Should we document what is in existence?
* what exists is in databrowser (SolidOS) and maybe NSS that is known about
* check in with Tim

## release date of draft discovery part
* 20th March
* we are good along except TrustedApps
* idea is: discovering is for finding all document that make up the profile - structure of person's information
* name, address, friends are in separate documents (one for person and one for organization)
* Where would inbox go?
* answer: probably in discovery
* solid:oidc is part of discovery - it is information for dev - if you want it to have login, look for solid:oidc
* is it a recommendation or...
* answer: we have normative and non-normative sections. Best practices, what to do as an app - where to find it and if you do not find it what you can do.
* Example: if the preference file is not there this is how you can create it.
* It is up to apps to keep up the standard - there should be an app that fixes the profile - not all apps should do it but maybe if an app encounters it, it can recommend a profile fixer app.
* One might expect that servers fix these through patches - but these seem to be points against this approach. This is based on URI architecture - who owns that URI can dictate about it. It comes to a user using an app that can correct information and it is on the user to decide.
* We can improve it in the writing - saying that there are guidelines and specs expected to be followed - and there are fixing apps.
