# W3C Solid Community Group: WebID Profile

* Date: 2022-03-08T17:00:00Z
* Call: url
* Chat: url
* Repository: https://github.com/solid/webid-profile

## Present

* Virginia
* Jeff
* Emelia
* Sarven

---

## Announcements

### Meeting Recordings and Transcripts

* No audio or video recording, or automated transcripts without consent. Meetings are transcribed and made public. If consent is withheld by anyone, recording/retention must not occur.
* Join queue to talk.

### Participation and Code of Conduct

* [Solid Code of Conduct](https://github.com/solid/process/blob/main/code-of-conduct.md), [Positive Work Environment at W3C: Code of Ethics and Professional Conduct](https://www.w3.org/Consortium/cepc/)
* Operating principle for effective participation is to allow access across disabilities, across country borders, and across time. Feedback on tooling and meeting timing is welcome.
* If this is your first time, welcome! please introduce yourself.

### Scribes

* Jeff

### Introductions

* name: text

---

## Topics

### Display name
* Emelia Smith's suggestion to add `foaf:accountName` to WebID Profile Document
  * show the account name to users in accessible format
  * use finger format for eventual possible interop with finger
  * user@idp
  * Sarven suggests use of `foaf:nick` instead

### Knowledge transfer from Sarven on spec language
* WAC spec, 2021-07 is one example to base from
* separate non-normative from normative
* terminology should be defined
* if exists in previous spec, copy definition or redefine; link back to original spec
* ontologies are authoratative so can use terms without redefining
* e.g. we don't need to redifne e.g. seeAlso
* Use "when" - _when_ an app wants to X, it must Y ...

### Open questions
* Do we want to allow putting `acl:trustedApp` triples in `seeAlso` documents
  * Unaddressed due to time constraints. Will be addressed in upcoming sessions.
* ESS and `isPrimaryTopicOf`
  * Unaddressed due to time constraints. Will be addressed in upcoming sessions.


### Topic

URL:

* name: text

PROPOSAL: text

* name: +1,0,-1

RESOLUTION: text

ACTION: text
