# W3C Solid Community Group: WebID Profile

* Date: 2023-07-24T15:00:00Z
* Call: <https://meet.jit.si/solid-profile>
* Chat: <https://gitter.im/solid/webid-profile>
* Repository: <https://github.com/solid/webid-profile>

## Present

* [Virginia Balseiro](https://virginiabalseiro.com/#me)
* [elf Pavlik](https://elf-pavlik.hackers4peace.net)
* Timea Turdean
* Tim Berners-Lee
* Rui Zhao
* Jeff Zucker

---

## Announcements

### Meeting Recordings and Transcripts

* No audio or video recording, or automated transcripts without consent. Meetings are transcribed and made public. If consent is withheld by anyone, recording/retention must not occur.
* Join queue to talk.

### Participation and Code of Conduct

* [Solid Code of Conduct](https://github.com/solid/process/blob/main/code-of-conduct.md), [Positive Work Environment at W3C: Code of Ethics and Professional Conduct](https://www.w3.org/Consortium/cepc/)
* Operating principle for effective participation is to allow access across disabilities, across country borders, and across time. Feedback on tooling and meeting timing is welcome.
* If this is your first time, welcome! please introduce yourself.

### Scribes

* Virginia

---

## Introductions

* name: text

## Topics

### Loose coupling with specs like Type Indexes, SAI, Solid-OIDC etc.

URL: https://github.com/solid/webid-profile/issues/97

* VB: Proposed by eP. 
* eP: Created this issue after a previous meeting. About how to plan to design dependencies between specs. But need to adress in the broader context of Solid. When it comes to WebID-Profile, there are a few other specs (notcied issue #63 is related) that specify OIDC issuer, SAI, Type Indexes. So would be good to define dependencies. WebID profile preferably would not have normative dependencies on other specs, but other specs would have them on WebID-profile. Also specify which predicates have to be protected. Probably only available to change outside Solid protocol. One approach is WebID to specify how ohter specs can extend it. Also maybe find separation between preference to have a separate non-editable WebID profile and another Solid profile, specify how to discover one from the other one. Leaving out specifics of specific predicates to other specs.
* TBL: in general specs should be independent. Useful to have a list of things that uses it. In TI would be useful to have a list of specs that use it. OIDC thing is unique, it's the only ??? that needs these constraints. The way we link to that is important but other specs don't need to know how ??? works. 
* eP: I don't think OIDC issuer is the only exception. SAI has authorization agent predicate which is important. Server side clients would not use solid oidc. We also discussed advertising public keys, and that'd be something that would be security crucial. 
* JZ: I believe that we should be mentioning in a general way that one of the functions of the profile is identity and one of the ways to handle is OIDC. We don't have to enfornce OIDc except to say there could be predicates pointing to thm in the profile and reference the Solid-OIDC spec. 
* eP: It should also take into account extensibility. Spec mentions a few things about oidc... and after spec is finalized there are other authn mechanisms... we shouldn't have this be a live document and update but rather have a registry of predicates that are used and we can extend later. 
* TT: I believe these are valid points that we have discussed i nthe past, I just want to remind ourselves that this sounds like a next version kind of topic, in the sense that our goal is to put down in text what the Solid app developers have right now at their fingertips. Unfortunately that is the TI predicate. Back to the topic itself, that's why public TI is not a must in the profile. I can't envision how to make it... maybe registring like you mentioned. 
* TBL: Is it logical for TI spec to talk about what goes into the TI. But profile spec not to have to list everything which can go into a profile. Isn't it most sensible to have TI identify ??? and point to the profile spec. Don't have to point to profile spec to link back to it. 
* eP: If I understood correctly I agree. Whatever is relying on adding something to the profile, those specs depend on the profile. We could have a way to find dependencies and dependents. So whatever depends on WebID profile would be easy to discover.  
* TBL: I think we're all in agreement. Idea of having registries is a good idea. 
* eP: Does everyone agree on the dependency approach that WebID would not depend on other specs but the other way? Maybe also having this aspec of adding security related statements and also regular extensions that are not security specific. 
* TT: Side effect of this is concretely to not mention something like Solid OIDc or TI in the profile spec? 
* eP: I'll say there will be no normative requirements about OIDc, TI, or SAI but it'd probably add to a directory of specs that extend it, so people can find how it's being used. It could be as an Appendix or something outside the spec that is easily updateable. And have predicates poiting to the relevant specs. So there would be a way to discover but not a normative requirement. 
* TBL: You need to be able to ??? so nobody has to keep an eye on ??? We need to encourage app developers to go if they need to do something with the profile. TI is at the moment in the profile. 
* JZ: I like the way eP put it that we don't wanna make normative statements about these specs but I like the idea of a non-normative section explaining the relationship with those specs. 
* VB: +1
* TBL: You could have a best practices document. 
* VB: We can have an appendix for now and later move.
* eP: Does it sound reasonable for people to specify these security fundamental extensions? The main normative req for WebID could be how these ??? and how they can be extended. And wehre these security concerned predicates should go to b protected. 
* TBL: In general I feel there's a question about how when you make something a special triple, if you have a pointer to an authentication agent that's just a pointer. The fact that oidc is part of the login makes it ??? in other ways. 
* eP: When it comes to WebID-Profile is it only profile for a social agent or can it be used by application/clients? Solid oidc defined client id documents but we might change solid oidc to not require this distinction. Possibly apps could use WebIDs. In that case there might be a new requirement to have public keys. 
* JZ: My understanding is that we decided to work on Social agent specifically not on clients. 
* TBL: Yes. I got a bot which has got a pod and it's an agent. I give it access to stuff in my pod. But as JZ suggested we focus on people. 
* eP: If mostly intended for social agents, maybe it's also to rethink the naming. WebID Profile is too generic and people might want to use it for clients. 
* TBL: I disagree. Splitting hairs a bit. When people use WebIDs for other things, maybe some of the stuff we put in the specs for people might still be useful. 

---

### Type Index spec - core concepts - discussion

* URL of examples to be discussed: <https://github.com/solid/type-indexes/discussions/24>
* VB: Proposed by TT.
* VB: Postponed to 2023-07-31.