# W3C Solid Community Group: WebID Profile

- Date: 2023-06-27T16:00:00Z
- Call: <https://meet.jit.si/solid-profile>
- Chat: <https://gitter.im/solid/webid-profile>
- Repository: <https://github.com/solid/webid-profile>

## Present

- [Virginia Balseiro](https://virginiabalseiro.com/#me)
- [elf Pavlik](https://elf-pavlik.hackers4peace.net)
- Jeff Zucker
- Rui Zhao

---

## Announcements

### Meeting Recordings and Transcripts

- No audio or video recording, or automated transcripts without consent.
  Meetings are transcribed and made public. If consent is withheld by anyone,
  recording/retention must not occur.
- Join queue to talk.

### Participation and Code of Conduct

- [Solid Code of
  Conduct](https://github.com/solid/process/blob/main/code-of-conduct.md),
  [Positive Work Environment at W3C: Code of Ethics and Professional
  Conduct](https://www.w3.org/Consortium/cepc/)
- Operating principle for effective participation is to allow access across
  disabilities, across country borders, and across time. Feedback on tooling and
  meeting timing is welcome.
- If this is your first time, welcome! please introduce yourself.

### Scribes

- Virginia

---

## Introductions

- RZ: Oxford University working on EWADA in which TBL is involved.
  Interested/using descentralized platforms. Our project is doing things related
  to Solid, human/collective use, privacy, etc.

## Topics

### New meeting time

URL: https://doodle.com/meeting/organize/id/b69WlXLa

- VB: It seems the two possible times that suit us all would be:
  - Monday 14:00 UTC
  - Monday 15:00 UTC
- VB: Please check that your responses to the Doodle are up to date to verify
  this.
- VB: Any preference towards one or the other?
- JZ: I have a strong preference for 15:00
- VB: Any objections to 15:00 UTC?
- VB: No objections.

ACTION: VB to check with TT, make announcement, ask SC to update the W3C
calendar.

### Consider recommending hosting WebID Documents at a dedicated service

- VB: Proposed by eP.
- eP:
  https://github.com/solid/data-interoperability-panel/issues/312#issuecomment-1607339927
- eP: We should consider recommending hosting WebID Documents at a dedicated
  service which:
  - Requires two-factor authentication (2FA)
  - Does NOT expose it via Solid Protocol (especially no write access!), only
    conforming to WebID spec itself
  - Separate Solid Profile includes v-card type of information and anything else
    the user would like to have exposed via Solid Protocol
- eP: SAI currently relies only on two statements: oidc-issuer and SAI
  Authorization Agent . Also including ??? registry. Proposing to remove.
  Starting to deploy CSS as a decoupled service, want to discuss with them how
  to handle WebID profile documents differently. WebID profile document is a
  fundamental part of security because oidc-issuer or authorization agent can be
  changed this is a security concern. I want to propose to CSS to have a
  separate service to provide WebID document.
- VB: Are you wanting us to recommend a separate service?
- eP: Not quite, but emphasize the security aspects. People shouldn't expect to
  use Solid protocol to make changes.
- JZ: I believe that security is an issue, server should take steps. toprotect
  the items you mentioned. WebID Profile is so central to semantic nature and
  social nature of Solid, that to solve the security issues and leave
  semantic/social unresolved is not a solution. We need a way for clients to be
  able to interact with the social/semantic profile. To say we are isolating and
  protecting this document is not a solution. We need to say, if these things
  are protectecx, how do you write to somewhere that isn't?
- eP: I do agree that it is not a complete solution.
- VB: We have a plan to add security considerations which will cover discussed
  things.
- eP: Are you planning to rely on the WebID being accessible?
- VB: There will be different approaches. If WebID is just readable, there will
  be recommendation what to do.
- eP: I want to know if Solid porotocl will have a hard requirement for WebID
  profile.
- VB: There is WebID spec, that would be the requirements that service separate
  from Solid Protocol would have to follow.
- eP: If WebID profile spec requires WebID document to be writable by the Solid
  protocol. If it leaves it out of scope it will need a separate spec to cover
  the case when it is not.
- RZ: Topic I proposed is related. From my point of view, it is about the use
  cases that we must have to have WebID be writable by any application. There
  are certain use cases where the app must write to the WebID profile unless we
  have a way to sort out these issues.
- JZ: We need to be very clear that a WebID profile is not the same thing as a
  WebID Solid profile. A Solid profikle must be onSolid protocol. It may in some
  cases be the same thing, or it may be a completely separate document. My
  concern is if it's a separate document, and there's a non-writable webid
  document and there's a pointer to a writable one, can we have stability as to
  where it can be? Can we have the ability to wrtie to any rdfs:seeAlso? There
  needs to be a good pathway to find those. Regardless of whether there are
  combined or separate there must a pathway that can be used.
- eP: If there's a way that can be two different documents, it's addressing the
  cases I am thinking about. We don't need to use something like seeAlso, we can
  find something more specific.
- JZ: What happens with seeAlso is that it ends up refering to a seeAlso. There
  is potential for an infinite loop for seeAlso.
- eP: No reason to use seeAlso, we can find a more speicifc one. Apps should be
  able to detect cycles so infinite loop should not be a concern. When you talk
  about applications creating app specific documents, there needs to be a
  definition for this. There is the case of users needing to manage access to
  all these profiles. We need a specific use case first to discuss this.
- RZ: We do have a use case for apps having to modify the WebID profile to
  advertise the resource they create. In our case a calendar. User has to tell
  other users where the calendars are, which are created by the application. So
  applications need to know where they are, starting from the WebID profile. The
  application needs a standard place to write this information.
- eP: For me, that seems like domain specific information. People can collab on
  a calendar using different application. There is the Type Indexes approach,
  there is also SAI's data registrations. Before an app creates a calendar, it
  needs permission from the user to do so. Apps who want to interop can use
  different approaches (like TI), there must be a common shared knowledge of
  what it means to work with a calendar.
- RZ: It works with single user, but with multiple users, when second user wants
  to read the calendar how does that user request permission to read the
  calendar?
- JZ: I'd like to keep this discussion about this specification rather than
  other specifications, although it is useful to know. The way we solve this in
  this spec is with Type Indexes. What's needed for that is, you need to go from
  WebID propfile to a statement pointing to a Type Index (private and public).
  Once you found the TI, it is very clear how you describe an instance. Then
  anybody else can find.
- RZ: I am not asking for a solution for that scenario. Just poiting out that
  there must be a standard way to find that resource.
- VB: What JZ is saying is the standard way according to this spec is Type
  Index.
- JZ: Yes. In the case where you have specific privacy concerns, that would be
  trickier as to where to put that information, but generic info about where
  that is, is already clarified in the spec. And there's the alternative that eP
  mentioned about data registrations.
- eP: The SAI spec supports the case where you require authorization before
  discovering existence. Does WebID profile spec plan to have a hard dependency
  on TI? In that case for me I would need an alternative that does not depend on
  TI.
- eP: One can discover from WebID profile if the user is using SAI/TI or both.
  There's a possibility of having a common level of WebID Profile and then
  discover which it is using. My question is whether a divergent path is
  possible.
- JZ: That seems reasonable to me to allow support for both cases. We cannot
  mandate that we have one or the other.
- VB: Can I request eP to put this (about the divergent path) into an issue?
- eP: I can do that.
- eP: if there were intent to make TI a MUST in Solid protocol, there would be a
  pushback. We can bring to CG.
- JZ: I don't think there's gonna be anything in the spec that says which
  predicates you can/cannot use in a profile. We won't forbid from using data
  authorixation predicate in the profile.
- eP: Yes I agree. But what the spec requires to conform, we need to reach
  consensus on.
- JZ: +1 on creating an issue.

ACTION: eP to open an issue on webid-profile about allowing for more than one
possibility for data discovery.

- RZ: What if an app needs to write? Should that be with some info in the
  WebID-Profile?
- VB: Are you asking how to discover a correct place where the app should write?
- RZ: Yes
- VB: It's the same as dicover or where to read, it might differe if app is the
  first one to write that kind data.
- JZ: I think there's a bit of disconnect. I think what RZ means is not the TI
  but other sort of configuration that would go into a WebID Profile document.
  There are situations where you want a specific group of people to have access
  to a set of configurations. Where does one write that information? It's not
  TI, but other kinds of information.
- RZ: If the different applications have agreed to ???
- eP: RZ, who would be interested in reading that data? Other apps/users, same
  app, different app?
- RZ: Mainly same user, same app.
- eP: In that case, in SAI each app gets its own registration, and it stores
  data depending on whether it is relevant only for itself or other apps.
- RZ: I was not aware of interop spec. Does that require separate libraries? Or
  is it part of solid-client?
- eP: Separate. I am working on sai.js. If you're interested I can point you to
  sai.js. It is alternative to solid-client, not using TI.
- RZ: If that's not a apart of the standard, then where does SAI store this
  registry? Not in ht euser's pod?
- eP: We assume user can have any number of storages. In one of those there will
  be an agent's regustry. They can be in the same or different storages. App
  registration is in the ??? registry. But don't want to hijack this meeting, so
  you can join an interop meeting.
- JZ: I personally think that things RZ has brought up that have not been
  address. We need to give developers a pathway to write configuration
  information and know where to find it.
- RZ: From my perspective, since I am new to these things, my conclusion is we
  either wait for TI to be mandatory, or we use the interop spec.
- JZ: There's another step there. You can use interop spec as a complete
  replacement for what we're doing and TI is doing. Not arguing against that.
  But our specs needs a way to say not only what the type of info is stored
  where, but also for people using certain kinds of apps, here's other
  configuration ifnormation that's useful to you, with access control. That's
  what an extended profile document is.
- eP: What we can find useful is have a common set of use cases. RZ, if you
  could document your use cases with details, we can through TI/SAI start to
  provide some answers and seeing the differences. It'd be good for us to
  understand how the approaches differ.
- VB: +1 on detailed use cases.

### Status query or feature request before moving WebID Profile out from Solid Pod

URL:
https://forum.solidproject.org/t/handy-library-to-fix-re-populate-webid/6623

- VB: Proposed by RZ
- RZ: This emerged from a topic about tools to "fix" the WebID Profile document
  (and Pod). It led to some questions and required features before WebID Profile
  can be smoothly moved out from Solid Pods:

  - Automatically creating and managing Type Index
  - “Standard”/“Official”/“Reference” library support to retrieve content based
    on Type Index
  - Automatically assigning App with a location to store content/configuration
  - A mechanism to “advertise” resources created and managed by Apps, without
    relying on modifying WebID

- RZ: This is all covered by previous topic. I was assuming TI was the only
  future standard, was unaware of SAI. Right now I am not 100% clear whether TI
  will be _the_ standard for Solid WebID profile or not.
- VB: We have to discuss it, we haven't discuss it yet. We will have an issue to
  follow up on this topic. I'm not opposed to having possibility of using one or
  the other.
- eP: I am completely open to giving an effort to reconcile what TI/SAI do, but
  for that use cases are needed. Privacy concerns are important. We should
  consider leveraging shapes. In the end we can get close to what SAI does and
  align closer to TI. Having some requirements will be helpfuil to define what
  we're trying toa ddress.
- JZ: As much as SAI is better in security, there are a huge number of apps that
  don't need that level of security and whose main purpose is to make public
  information. A spec that supports both those is necessary part of the
  ecosystem. Interop proposes things which are important, but so do we.
- eP: I do want to reconcile. Users shouldn't have the impression that Soldi is
  something wthey can use only for moderate privacy/security. I think we want to
  make sure that people are confident that all levels of security required are
  supoorted finance, health, etc.) We need to be careful, and have a clear way
  of people to keep advancing without making compormises on security and
  privacy.
- VB: +1
- RZ: We don't use TI/SAI at the moment. Not easy to use for developers because
  it involves a lot of manual inserting of data. Each side will want to develop
  some standard library to support that. But that is something ??? for
  developers. Writing a simple app that writes configuration into a pod.
  Developer will never want to know where the config is stores by accessing
  TI/SAI, but only having a simple fucntion that gets where to store the config
  file.
- eP: RZ, I totally agree. If you want to give sai.js a try, we have two public
  demo
  apps([projectron](https://github.com/hackers4peace/projectron/blob/main/src/app/services/sai.service.ts)
  Angular &
  [vuejectron](https://github.com/hackers4peace/vuejectron/blob/main/src/sai.ts)
  Vue) that work with basic projects. If there's other technology, I am
  available to collab/give feedback.
- RZ: I heard about discussion of TI being managed by server or not. Currently
  it is managed by applications. Would it be easy to have it supported by
  server?
- eP: In SAI apps don't deal with any of that or authorization. This is all
  managed by authorization agent.
- VB: I will bring feedback back to solid-client team that functions dealing
  with TI would be useful to have.
- JZ: Basing TI on the server is not the intention. Our spec is client-client.
  Tim is very strong on having this spec and others be clients which create
  interoperability rather than depending on the server.
- eP: Authorization agent is not part of solid storage. It acts as a Solid
  client. It is a server-side application with special privileges and
  responsibilities, but acts as a Solid client.
- JZ: You can have a choice on different authorization agents, so it decouples
  from a particular service.

### Secondary / Alternative / Fallback WebID

- VB: Proposed by RZ
- RZ: (Not yet a post.) Currently WebID allows to use `owl:sameAs` to specify
  equivalent / additional WebID Profile, and they are expected to be treated as
  the "same person/agent". However, 1) this is not mandatory, and there is no
  standard library; 2) this only works if all WebID Profiles are accessible.
  This is a potential problem for self-hosting, let aside network blocking or
  simply DNS record expired. How about supporting a
  [nomadic-identity](https://hubzilla.org/page/hubzilla/user_guide)-like
  approach, explicitly allowing multiple WebID Profiles to refer to the same
  identity? A major difference is: even if the original WebID Profile `WebID_1`
  is not accessible, the secondary one `WebID_2` still represents the same
  person/agent `WebID_1`? Surely there will be further technical challenges and
  discussions. But it would be great to have an understanding of the general
  attitude first.
- VB: Topic postponed to next meeting.
