# W3C Solid Community Group: WebID Profile

* Date: 2023-07-17T15:00:00Z
* Call: <https://meet.jit.si/solid-profile>
* Chat: <https://gitter.im/solid/webid-profile>
* Repository: <https://github.com/solid/webid-profile>

## Present

* [Virginia Balseiro](https://virginiabalseiro.com/#me)
* Seila Gonzalez Estrecha
* Tim Berners-Lee
* Rui Zhao

---

## Announcements

### Meeting Recordings and Transcripts

* No audio or video recording, or automated transcripts without consent. Meetings are transcribed and made public. If consent is withheld by anyone, recording/retention must not occur.
* Join queue to talk.

### Participation and Code of Conduct

* [Solid Code of Conduct](https://github.com/solid/process/blob/main/code-of-conduct.md), [Positive Work Environment at W3C: Code of Ethics and Professional Conduct](https://www.w3.org/Consortium/cepc/)
* Operating principle for effective participation is to allow access across disabilities, across country borders, and across time. Feedback on tooling and meeting timing is welcome.
* If this is your first time, welcome! please introduce yourself.

### Scribes

* Virginia

---

## Introductions

* name: text

## Topics

### Secondary / Alternative / Fallback WebID

* VB: Proposed by RZ
* RZ: (Not yet a post.) Currently WebID allows to use `owl:sameAs` to specify equivalent / additional WebID Profile, and they are expected to be treated as the "same person/agent". However, 1) this is not mandatory, and there is no standard library; 2) this only works if all WebID Profiles are accessible. This is a potential problem for self-hosting, let aside network blocking or simply DNS record expired. How about supporting a [nomadic-identity](https://hubzilla.org/page/hubzilla/user_guide)-like approach, explicitly allowing multiple WebID Profiles to refer to the same identity? A major difference is: even if the original WebID Profile `WebID_1` is not accessible, the secondary one `WebID_2` still represents the same person/agent `WebID_1`? Surely there will be further technical challenges and discussions. But it would be great to have an understanding of the general attitude first.
* TBL: This is a tip of the iceberg of many different things. One of them, if something in a pod is unaccessible is different to having more than one identity. If you make a copy of a Pod, or if what was available in one place is in a different place, pepople should have their own domain and move around. There's also more issues... if I'm lookign at some data about yourself, and I have something about you, if I look at IDs they represent the same perosn, but I might want to be able to own that and trust because it's in my contacts, for example. Merging information about the same thing from different sources...
* RZ: The current attitude is everyone is assumed to own their own domain, so we don't deal with it?
* TBL: That is the destination, but not assumed that you do have, just you should.
* RZ: Okay.

### Multiple OIDC issuers for different clients

* VB: Proposed by Seila. How can clients handle the case of multiple OIDC issuers, particularly if they intend to use one in particular? Example: I have my WebID, and I want to use it to log in to Health app and Finance app, separately, because I am using my WebID with different providers of diffent services. How can the client decide which one to use?
* SGE: Trying to write about the WebID profile and how to use best. If I want to use my WebID for two different verticals, finance app and health app for example, and have two different oidc-issuers, how do we manage how to use each one with a particular app?
* TBL: why would you want different oidc-issuer?
* SGE: This is an edge case. Flanders are thinking of using two different oidc-issuers in the ecosystem, so I'm assuming WebID will be the same and ou can have a list.
* TBL: You're required to have an oidc-issuer. Normally we have just one.
* SGE: The answer I have got is the client should know which one to pick. I want to know if there's something else in the pipeline about adding preferences, oidc issuers that are preferred, etc.
* VB: I think maybe using a private preference file to store some sort of preference for an app to use one in particular.
* TBL: It'd be good to have a use case explaining the motivation. Is it that different apps trust different oidc providers?
* SGE: Yes.
* TBL: So when you log in with a different one, you have the situation where you have different IDs. As the same ID with different oidc providers, it'd be good to have two in case one goes down too. When going through login process, the app looks at the preferences, and then it finds out how to treat. If they look at the oidc issuer they logged in with, it breaks the model a bit... same WebID with different oidc-issuer, we cannot represent that in ACL files. So if you want to treat them differently I feel they should have a different WebID so we can express that trust in the authorization.
* SGE: Have we thought about having one, multiple WebIDs for different aspects of their lives?
* TBL: Yes.
* SGE: any thoughts on federation changes in information betwen those?
* TBL: People I know like Sandro H. have ideas around, if you meet someone in a context you might not find out they are the same... they might tell you. I wonder if it'd be using to have `solid:samePerson`. But they're different personas. People are using `sameAs`. It'd be interesting to have `samePersonAs` for this scenario you describe.
* TBL: Should we make an issue to add to the vocab?

ACTION: VB to create issue on vocab to add the above

ACTION: VB to create an issue on webid-profile to track the above discussion and open to comments

---

### Type Index spec - core concepts - discussion

* URL of examples to be discussed: <https://github.com/solid/type-indexes/discussions/24>
* VB: Proposed by TT.
* VB: Postponed until both TT and SC can be present (potentially 2023-07-24 during the second half hour of the meeting). I will coordinate.
